Orlando Sequera: Good
Orlando Sequera: Good morning. Good afternoon. Good evening. Everyone.
Orlando Sequera: Welcome to your Pmp: Bootcam.
Orlando Sequera: We're gonna have great sessions today. Session One.
Orlando Sequera: we're gonna have a lot of great content to go over, and these
Orlando Sequera: New Year 2,023.
Orlando Sequera: So get ready. We're gonna get started right now.
and
Orlando Sequera: i'm I have the pleasure to be your instructor. My name is Orlando Secura.
Orlando Sequera: I am a project manager.
Orlando Sequera: Bmp. Certified. I've been working in project management for over 15 years now
Orlando Sequera: I have experience in both predictive financial environment going from
Orlando Sequera: start ups all the way through
Orlando Sequera: 4 to 500
Orlando Sequera: corporations, and also working with the Federal Government
Orlando Sequera: in here in the Us. As
Orlando Sequera: that's a project manager for software development programs mainly with the Artemis program, which probably some of you are familiar with.
Orlando Sequera: That is
Orlando Sequera: the program that NASA has in place to be
Orlando Sequera: going back to the moon. We just recently we're able to launch a Artemis once successfully.
Orlando Sequera: and we're going to be.
Orlando Sequera: and having a second mission in a couple of years, I would say.
Orlando Sequera: and it's it's been very exciting, but
Orlando Sequera: above everything, i'm a trailer. I love training a project. Managers like you
Orlando Sequera: and I'm gonna give my best. So all of you get
Orlando Sequera: as much as possible from this great content that we have been revamped by Pmi, and we have a great material to go with
Orlando Sequera: a few things that I would like to start mentioning so so far I see that the chat has been very active.
Orlando Sequera: But right now we're going to start with
Orlando Sequera: this first hour. It's about housekeeping. We would like to have your attention. So
Orlando Sequera: your Ch.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to post the chat so we can get all of your attention because we have.
Orlando Sequera: So i'm
Orlando Sequera: important information to go over my apologies.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to go over some important information that
Orlando Sequera: is going to help us to have a great session
there.
Orlando Sequera: So give me just 1 s, and
Orlando Sequera: we're going to have
a
Orlando Sequera: some instructions and
Orlando Sequera: just one quick second.
Orlando Sequera: and we are going to
Orlando Sequera: the chats gonna be passed right now.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, and
Orlando Sequera: this housekeeping is important. So
Orlando Sequera: this we have everyone's attention, and we're going to continue
Orlando Sequera: with the class. All right.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to have breaks.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, every hour, I promise you it won't be
Orlando Sequera: the entire 3.5 h. We're gonna have breaks pretty much every 60 min or so. I'll make sure that we take a 10 min break.
Orlando Sequera: Then we're gonna have a lunch break. We're gonna have a 1 h break in which please stay locked in
Orlando Sequera: during that break that long break. Please stay locked in cause that there's gonna be some videos that we're gonna be playing that are gonna help you.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: we're gonna come back after our
Orlando Sequera: 1 h break. We're gonna come back and
Orlando Sequera: continue with part 2 of session one, and we are going to
Orlando Sequera: a half every 60 min again. 10 min breaks. Okay, so we'll have enough breaks. You're gonna have enough time
Orlando Sequera: to re-energize
Orlando Sequera: I was looking at the chat, and there were some questions about accessing your resources.
Orlando Sequera: So it is important. If you are a percip, your user go to Per CPU
Orlando Sequera: and make sure that you select Pmp. Atp. That is the option for your current boot. Camp
Orlando Sequera: your 5 day. Look for your 5 day cohort.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: that's where you're gonna Have your in the far right. You will have a tab that says resources. That's how you access the multiple resources that you have
Orlando Sequera: for this class everything that you need for your success
Orlando Sequera: with the Pmp. Exam. Is available, so make sure that you check
Orlando Sequera: that tap. In the event of
Orlando Sequera: you not being a persecuted users.
Orlando Sequera: you have to go
Orlando Sequera: to Github.
Orlando Sequera: check your learning portal, and for any available courses.
Orlando Sequera: the books or test Prep. Exam. You have the resources available.
Orlando Sequera: AIM
Orlando Sequera: in Github
Orlando Sequera: and make sure that you select the right option. If for all of you
Orlando Sequera: that are in this book it will be the 5 day option. This is the 5 day book. But we also have other modalities for an 8 day boot camp, all right.
Orlando Sequera: and that's where you're gonna have information about certificates of attendance links to the class documentation that it is important. The learner Kit. We're gonna talk about that in a few minutes.
Orlando Sequera: This slide decks and also the vocabulary. It is important we're gonna go over some vocabulary that might be new to some of you, some of it, you might know, but it is important that we start using the
Orlando Sequera: Pmi vocabulary for the exam. We have to be able to speak the same language.
Orlando Sequera: So we understand
Orlando Sequera: they content all. Right.
Orlando Sequera: then.
Orlando Sequera: attendance.
Orlando Sequera: It is important. Attendance is important, and it starts with making sure that you log in with the correct name.
Orlando Sequera: We're gonna be tracking attendance.
Orlando Sequera: and everything starts with you, making sure that you are logging in
Orlando Sequera: with the right name information. The name should be the same as in your learning platform.
Orlando Sequera: whether you're using precipio or skills. So Scaleport.
Orlando Sequera: if you're joining through Zoom, make sure that you're logging in with the right information your first time and lasting. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: If you're joining through the learning portal. Make sure that your first and last name is correct
Orlando Sequera: if it is not, if it's showing no. For example.
Orlando Sequera: you can reach out to skills of support at
Orlando Sequera: you, support a skill subc to find out. How can that be corrected again? Joining through? Zoom. Make sure that you're using your first and last name.
Orlando Sequera: if you're not sure
Orlando Sequera: that if your that your name is correct, and I see some of you doing that, you can send a test message to the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: Just to see your name. Please keep in mind that these test messages are not going to be answered
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: If you have any issues when it comes to staying connected.
Orlando Sequera: If you're having any issues with precipit or skill, soft the learning platforms, you can contact customer support directly. That is that that support that skills of.com boot comes for any assistance.
Orlando Sequera: You do not need to notify us when you come back, that you have, rejoined the session, after being disconnected, or that you have missed time. So you don't have to tell us i'm back. I I've rejoined the session. It it's okay. Those messages are going to be dismissed. And if you, if you don't have any questions.
Orlando Sequera: if
Orlando Sequera: you get this connected
Orlando Sequera: a few times, if it's something, it's. If it's a regular recurrence.
Orlando Sequera: you can use zoom as a. As an alternate
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: You can ask in the in the session, in the Q. A. That's the Q. A. Section, please. That's where you're gonna be asking your questions. And we're gonna go over the differences between the Q. A. And the chat. So you can ask for the zoom details in the Q. A. Section so you can join directly through Zoom if you're starting to experience
Orlando Sequera: a lot of difficulties with persecution.
Orlando Sequera: The details are going to be the same for all
Orlando Sequera: all the sessions that we're gonna have, so that information is not gonna change the information that we provide today for Zoom is gonna be the same for the rest of the week. Okay, please make sure that you have it
Orlando Sequera: a available, and so you only need it once. It's not gonna change every day the same for the entire week.
Orlando Sequera: and review the instructions in the boot camp
Orlando Sequera: in this case for the 5 day attendance, tracker and certificate request process. Talk
Orlando Sequera: A: because that's gonna help you to track your time. It is important that you track your time directly.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, you
Orlando Sequera: specifically track your time. There is a document that will allow you to
Orlando Sequera: to do that.
Orlando Sequera: and it is under resources.
Orlando Sequera: review those instructions on how to do it. It has a template that's gonna help you to track your attendance.
Orlando Sequera: Okay? And when you leave the session, for whatever reason. So you remember it's your responsibility
Orlando Sequera: also.
Orlando Sequera: How can you participate in the Webinar?
Orlando Sequera: Probably some of you and I saw those questions in the chat as well.
Orlando Sequera: Your My, your microphones are being disabled, and your video has been disabled to save bandwidth.
Orlando Sequera: hey? But you can participate in multiple ways. You have a chat.
Orlando Sequera: please make sure that your chat has been changed to everyone. So whenever you have a message in your chat.
Orlando Sequera: or whenever you send the message or
Orlando Sequera: send the comment in your in the chat. Everyone can see it. Please make sure that the blue box is changed to everyone, and you can use the modicons if you want to add
Orlando Sequera: a feedback, and
Orlando Sequera: for for those messages. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: But now
Orlando Sequera: this is important.
Orlando Sequera: When it comes to the chat and the Q. And a.
Orlando Sequera: The chat is going to be.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to unp it once we get into the content.
Orlando Sequera: Throughout
Orlando Sequera: the last one. I'm going to be asking you some questions.
Orlando Sequera: You can
Orlando Sequera: answer them using the chat.
Orlando Sequera: You can also use it to shared your preferred tools and techniques. Make comments
Orlando Sequera: also to communicate with other participants like a regular chat. Right? That's the main purpose of the chat. But remember, we're following this is important content. The we need your attention. That's why the chat is to at this moment. We need your
Orlando Sequera: total attention to what we're doing right. Now, if you have any questions, those do not go in the chat where the chat is scrolling, and it can be very distracting. Okay, so questions go in the Q. And a. Section
Orlando Sequera: if we start noticing that the chat is getting out of control that is crawling too fast.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to post the chat to get you back into
Orlando Sequera: the the the flow of the class. Okay, it might be slow. That's needed to minimize your disruption. We're doing this to make sure that you have the best experience possible
Orlando Sequera: in this 5 days.
Orlando Sequera: The Q. A. Section.
Orlando Sequera: If you have any
Orlando Sequera: technical issues, my audio is not working. My video is not working. What do I do.
Orlando Sequera: That's where the Q. A. Comes into play. That's a question. But please make sure that you provide
Orlando Sequera: information to our moderators. And, by the way, my apologies. It's not just me. There is a whole supporting team
Orlando Sequera: behind this class as well. We have moderators.
Orlando Sequera: We have carm all in today.
Orlando Sequera: and we have a group of people from Skillsoft that are also supporting you to be successful in this class.
Orlando Sequera: hey? Karl as myself. He's also pmp. Certified and has vast experience, and we have a great team
Orlando Sequera: that is here to provide you with information that you need
Orlando Sequera: in order to become
Orlando Sequera: Pmp. Certified. Okay. So we're here to give our best to make sure that you have all of your
Orlando Sequera: all the information that is needed. But you also need to help us. So If you have technical issues, please start by saying whether you are a perceived user or a non procedure student. That's gonna help your moderators
Orlando Sequera: provide you with the right information. If you happen to have questions about resources.
Orlando Sequera: you also need
Orlando Sequera: 2,
Orlando Sequera: A. Ask a question in the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: A. But also remember, do you have to start by same, whether you are a percipient or norm, or a non precipice student?
Orlando Sequera: And if you need clarification
Orlando Sequera: on
Orlando Sequera: they
Orlando Sequera: topics that we're covering. If it's something that is not that I haven't been able to answer, please make sure, feel free to use the Q. A. For that
Orlando Sequera: One thing that is extremely important here is, please be patient.
Orlando Sequera: There are
Orlando Sequera: there. There's a lot of you, and that we're trying to do our best. We have done this multiple times. But be patient. Patience is key with the exam with the preparation. So please be patient. We are going to respond to your inquiry. We're not ignoring you. We're going to get to your
Orlando Sequera: question in a timely manner. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Also.
Orlando Sequera: there's an important feature that we have AIM.
Orlando Sequera: The Q. And a section.
Orlando Sequera: You have the chance to vote
Orlando Sequera: on questions.
Orlando Sequera: Questions are going to be visible to all You're going to see, all the questions you're going to be able to
Orlando Sequera: see all the questions.
Orlando Sequera: if you like a particular question, because it happens a lot. You might have the same question.
Orlando Sequera: Please
Orlando Sequera: click vote on that question, and that's how
Orlando Sequera: we have it sorted.
Orlando Sequera: So those questions that get the most votes are gonna go to the top.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: And if
Orlando Sequera: I will recommend you to do the same, sorted by most
Orlando Sequera: up votes
Orlando Sequera: that is, in the upper right hand corner of the queue.
Orlando Sequera: the Q&a. Section.
Orlando Sequera: and that's gonna help you, and it's gonna help us
Orlando Sequera: in
Orlando Sequera: limiting and avoiding repetition in the with the same questions.
Orlando Sequera: So before you start typing a new one that's gonna help us to avoid duplicates. Okay, Look at the questions. If you see. Oh, that's the same question that I have, then vote and that's gonna
Orlando Sequera: make it move to the top. And those are the ones that are going to be addressed
Orlando Sequera: a first, the ones that get the most votes. Okay?
Orlando Sequera: The top questions are going to be selected, and they're going to be answered. Live
Orlando Sequera: with
Orlando Sequera: the instructors discretion
Orlando Sequera: one general rule.
Orlando Sequera: If it's content, Rel. Let let's try to keep it
Orlando Sequera: as content related as possible. Of course we have technical issues.
Orlando Sequera: Of course we have questions about resources, but questions related to the class. Let's try to keep it
Orlando Sequera: aligned with the flow that we are following. For example, if we're covering a risk
Orlando Sequera: we're talking about race management and covering the definitions of risk. But yesterday we cover
Orlando Sequera: scope
Orlando Sequera: right, the hypothetically speaking.
Orlando Sequera: Then, you had questions of a scope, but
Orlando Sequera: in when we're talking about race, so so let's try to keep it aligned with the flow as much as possible. That's gonna help us. I'll. I'll do my best to answer all the questions that you have, You have all the resources and all the materials that you need to be successful. But please, please please make sure that
Orlando Sequera: the content related questions are aligned with what we are covering.
Orlando Sequera: Of course, priority is going to be given to any technical issues.
Orlando Sequera: But one thing that I wanted to highlight is that
Orlando Sequera: unfortunately not every question is going to be answered again. Great questions are related to the content that we're covering
Orlando Sequera: at that particular time. Those are great questions.
Orlando Sequera: If they include topics that will benefit
Orlando Sequera: as from learning, we're all learning right going through this content. And they are not spread across multiple posts.
Orlando Sequera: So we're trying to avoid that repetition, please. If you see a question that you like click on, vote a and that's gonna make sure that it moves to the top.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: all Righty.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: please, I see something that is happening right now. You are. You guys are using the Q. A. As the chat. That is, that is not what is intended for.
Orlando Sequera: We can
Orlando Sequera: please stop posting in the Q. And a. We. Can
Orlando Sequera: any issues with the Q. And a. As it is working, do you? We we have.
Orlando Sequera: Please please make sure that you're asking valid questions. If you're having technical issues, be specific. Don't, replace the Q. A. Or don't replace the chat with the Q. A. Use it what is
Orlando Sequera: intended for the chat is disabled. I mentioned that already the chat is disabled. So we get your attention. I'm: looking at some of the questions. If you have technical issues, make sure that you start by saying that you are a percip user. Or non persecuted. User. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: But if you are
Orlando Sequera: be specific with the questions it's getting. The questions are getting a little bit out of control. You guys are using the Q. A. As the chat. That's not what it is intended for. Okay, ask specific questions about your specific situation.
Orlando Sequera: and we're going to address it and remember, technical issues go to the top. But if something that is specifically happening to you.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. So we can.
Orlando Sequera: Please, please, please, please ask specific questions to your specific situation. You don't need to be an advocate for everybody else. Please make sure if you're having problems
Orlando Sequera: asked
Orlando Sequera: the specific. This is, I'm. A precipice student. I cannot hear the presentation. And then we're going to have a moderator to address it
Orlando Sequera: to address that that for you. Okay. So please make sure that you follow the guidelines. It's gonna help us. Do not start posting or using the Q. A. As the chat. That's not what it is intended for.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, my apologies
Orlando Sequera: is live attendance require. Yes, this is a requirement that comes from the Project Management Institute.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, this is not a requirement that comes from skills. So
Orlando Sequera: this is a hard requirement that comes from the Pmi institute You are required to attend the 35 h
Orlando Sequera: for this training.
Orlando Sequera: If you take, if if the purposes for you to take to sit for the pmp exempt
Orlando Sequera: we have a an exception rule for the 5 day boot camp.
Orlando Sequera: You're allowed to means one session. If you make the session by watching the replay, if you miss more than 50 min at at any time beyond the session allowed. You will need to make it by attending the life session in a different
Orlando Sequera: 5 day cohort
Orlando Sequera: you can
Orlando Sequera: you have to check your documents for the Pmp.
Orlando Sequera: A boot camp 5 day attendance tracker, which is under the resource Tab.
Orlando Sequera: That's going to explain you how to keep track of your attendance
Orlando Sequera: and how to get your
Orlando Sequera: how to keep track of your attendance. So you do. You know exactly what's happening? Okay. And if you need to get additional information about other sessions. You can check the calendar. This the the bootcam calendar calendar, the skillssoft.com
Orlando Sequera: for upcoming sessions
Orlando Sequera: in the event of an absence, you can request a replay of a previous session by asking in the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: Or for a past current session.
Orlando Sequera: by emailing
Orlando Sequera: or by emailing the mentoring team@mentoringatkilsoft.com. But you have to.
Orlando Sequera: because we have multiple cohorts.
Orlando Sequera: Please make sure that you provide the boot camp cohort that you're attending the session number and the date and time
Orlando Sequera: append it
Orlando Sequera: sample 5 day
Orlando Sequera: January 2,023 session, went recording
Orlando Sequera: and the date and time.
Orlando Sequera: Hey.
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to some of you might have this question, what about study purposes? I attended all the sessions, and I would like to have access to session, one or session 2.
Orlando Sequera: Do I have any limits?
Orlando Sequera: The answer is, No.
Orlando Sequera: you do not have any.
Orlando Sequera: There's no limitations when it comes to study purposes you as long as you meet the attendance requirement.
Orlando Sequera: So you can ask for the replace for your review purposes. That's perfectly fine.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Now, we're going to watch
Orlando Sequera: a video that is gonna help us to understand a little bit more about
Orlando Sequera: the the attendance
Orlando Sequera: for the 5 day
Orlando Sequera: boot camp in this case. So that's gonna help us to it's probably gonna answer some of the questions that you might that you might have. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: and we are going to watch
Orlando Sequera: video and
Orlando Sequera: okay, give me just 1 s. And here we go.
In this video we will discuss the best practices for attendance, the attendance requirements for the Pmp. Atp 5 day, boot, camp, and 8 debut camp.
Explain how to request a recording in case of an absence or for study purposes. How to manually track your attendance. Address a commonly asked question, and how to contact the skill. Soft mentoring team for any additional questions.
The Project Management institute, also known as Pmi requires, live real-time attendance in our instructor-led boot camp for your attendance to count.
Here are some things you can do to ensure that your attendance is counted.
If you join through your learning portal, check to make sure your first and last name is correct in your learning portal. If it is not. Please reach out to skill, soft support for further assistance in order to find out how it can be corrected.
You can contact them by emailing support at Skillsoft Com.
Be sure to let them know your name, the name of the Training organization providing you access to the boot camp. The link used to access your learning portal and your username.
If you have technical issues that need to join through Zoom directly, be sure to include your first and last names when using the browser link
or have a zoom account created when logging into the zoom desktop, client or app.
you can request the zoom details during a live session.
The detail should be the same for the duration of your cohort.
Don't log in with a group of participants, as the individual attendants of each person will not be tracked.
The following information is specific: to pmp attendance for the five-day cohort
You may be wondering is live attendance required for the five-day cohort.
Your live attendance is required. If you plan to register for the Pmp. Exam plan to submit this training for Pdus to maintain your pmp certification, or require an official pdu certificate.
Information about registering for the Pmp. Exam or claiming the boot camp for Pdus can be found in the class syllabus that is included with your boot camp documents. Her Cpio users can find the class syllabus under resources in their boot camp channel.
Non-persipio users can find the class syllabus in Github for the 5 day boot camp. If you miss more than 15 min in the 8 h for one session, you can make it up by requesting and watching the recording.
Let the recording play from start to finish. But you must watch any parts you missed.
If you miss more than 15 min. In any additional sessions you will have to make up those missed sessions by attending live in a different five-day cohort.
The following information is specific to pmp attendance for the eight-day cohort.
like the five-day cohort, live attendance is required for the eight-day cohort, based on the situations referenced
information about registering for the Pmp. Exam or claiming the boot camp for Pdus can be found in the class syllabus that is included with your boot camp documents. Percipio users can find the class syllabus under resources in their boot camp channel.
Non-perscipio users can find the class syllabus in Github
for the eight-day boot. Camp. If you Miss more than 15 min in any 2 sessions you can make them up by requesting and watching the recordings. Let the recordings play from start to finish, but you must watch any parts you missed.
If you miss more than 15 min in any additional sessions, you will have to make up those missed sessions by attending live in a different eight-day cohort.
Of course things happen, and you may find yourself in a situation where you must miss all or part of a boot camp session in case of an absence. These are the recommended steps. If you miss more than 15 min in a live session, you must make it up according to the previous slides
based on the boot camp type. You are attending 5 day or 8 day.
You can request a replay for a previous session by asking during a live session in the Q. And a. Or for a past or current session by emailing the mentoring team 48 h after the session ends using the email address, mentoring@skillsoft.com
A replay for a session also referred to as a session recording requires you to use the link and pass code provided by the mentoring team.
When accessing the recording. Please use Microsoft Edge or Google Chrome. If possible, you will be brought to a registration page where you will need to enter your first and last name and any other required fields.
After you have registered, you will need to enter the pass code. Remember, the pass code is case-sensitive, and must be entered exactly as provided.
In addition, the replays or recordings are available upon request for the dates of the boot camp you attended for study purposes.
since attendance is so important for this boot camp, and required by Pmi for candidates taking the pmp. Exam or claiming this boot camp for Pd. Us.
Anyone in either of those situations must use the provided attendance, tracking sheet included as part of your boot camp resources.
Also, if you require an official pdu certificate, you will need to fill out the attendance tracker.
In this example we are showing the first 2 tables from the attendance tracker document.
The first table is used to indicate the title for your boot camp and the scheduled start and end dates.
The second table is only used, if you must attend, live to make up missed sessions beyond the allowed exception, as discussed for the 5 day and 8 day cohorts.
In this example we are showing the session template table for day one.
the attendance tracker, dox, file contains 8 tables one for each session. If you are attending the five-day cohort. You can delete
eat the extra tables. If you are attending the eight-day cohort, you will use all 8 tables
in this version of the attendance tracker columns with choose and item allow you to pick from the available items for consistency, and to reduce the guessing on your part as to what to fill in
for this feature. To work you must click, enable editing from the information bar you see at the top, after opening the document.
if you don't see that information bar, and the items are not clickable. You can find a description of each column in the attendance tracker dox file.
In this example, we are showing the Comments section. The Comments section is used to add additional information that can't be captured in the table.
For example, if you want to expand on the reasons for joining late and or leaving the session early. You can provide these details if needed for one or more sessions. If you do not have any comments. You can leave the Comments Section blank
for detailed instructions on filling out the attendance tracker, including an example. Please check for the attendance tracker, Doc. X. File
to locate the attendance tracker dox file for Cpio users. Please check the resources option in your boot camp channel, and non-persipio users please request the link to Github to locate the file.
The name will be similar to the following, and may include the revision: date.
Pmp. Boot camp 5 day and 8 day attendance, tracker and certificate request process.org.
One commonly asked question is, Can you confirm my attendance for a certain date, time or session.
Attendance is not verified on a per session basis. If you are in class and logged in with your first and last name, the reporting will be accurate.
Please track your attendance, using the attendance tracker provided in your boot camp resources. Your attendance will be verified at the end of the cohort during the certificate request process.
If you have any attendance-related questions based on what was discussed here, please contact the skillsoft mentoring team by email the email address is mentoring@skillsoft.com.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, I
Orlando Sequera: We're paying attention to the questions that we are
Orlando Sequera: that we are getting, and
Orlando Sequera: remember to get access to the resources. I saw a lot of questions regarding the resources. So
Orlando Sequera: let's go back here.
Orlando Sequera: and it is important that you make sure i'm going to demonstrate that
Orlando Sequera: quickly. When you go to your
Orlando Sequera: in Percipio. There are ways.
Orlando Sequera: but you can.
Orlando Sequera: I can find that out. But you gotta make sure that you are in the right in the right place. You gotta make sure that you have.
Orlando Sequera: Did you select your project management?
Orlando Sequera: Your your skills are boot camps.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: you also want to make sure that you get
Orlando Sequera: to your project management boot camps.
Orlando Sequera: and this is going to be your 5 day
boot camps.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: once you get to this point. This is for Perip, your users. You can go to resources.
Orlando Sequera: and here are all the resources that
Orlando Sequera: you need. This is where you're gonna have your attendance tracker. This is where you're gonna
Orlando Sequera: find information about the learner, Kit, which is the next topic that we're going to be covering. So please make sure
Orlando Sequera: that you are able to get your
Orlando Sequera: to get to your to Percipio. Go to your Pmp. Boot camp 5 day
Orlando Sequera: North America in this case, and then
Orlando Sequera: click on this resources. And this is where you're going to be able to download this word document that is going to help us that it's going to help you to keep track of your attendance. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Going to resources. And so a bunch of questions about that. So
Orlando Sequera: I just wanted to quickly demo that the resources steps. So all the resources that you need a are here, the certificates of completion, and also information about the learner, Kit.
Orlando Sequera: and all the resources that you have as well. Application and exam tips is here. The closer the formulas for the Pmp. Exam
Orlando Sequera: your exam. Content out 9,
Orlando Sequera: which is the syllabus of your Pmp. Exam. Is also here a lot of great information that you have available. So please use the resources. What do I do if I'm. If i'm not a per super. User what do I do then, in the chat right now?
Orlando Sequera: Do you have the github link so you can get so you can get to the resources
Orlando Sequera: A that we have here in percipio. Okay. So.
Orlando Sequera: regardless of the fact whether, if you're a procedure, user come here right, go to the Resources staff and then look for the resource that you're looking for. This is where you're gonna get the attendance tracker. This is where you're gonna get information about the learner, Kit. It's all here.
Orlando Sequera: Another question that I
Orlando Sequera: the rather often, if you're starting to have
Orlando Sequera: issues with your audio issues with your video
Orlando Sequera: I would recommend you
Orlando Sequera: to use to log in through Zoom: okay, that usually helps. So we've been put in the the zoom login information.
Orlando Sequera: They multiple times. So we log in through zoom. If you're starting to have a lot of audio issues and video issues that seems to help a lot. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right. So let's go ahead and continue.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: the next topic that we have is about the learner. Kit.
Orlando Sequera: If you are going to be taking the Pmp. Exam. This is another requirement
Orlando Sequera: you need to have, and this is not my skill. So this is something mandated by the Project Management Institute.
Orlando Sequera: You need to have
Orlando Sequera: your own individual learner, Kit.
Orlando Sequera: the learner, Kit, must be purchased through skill soft.
Orlando Sequera: and it's going to be redeemed by
Orlando Sequera: the Project Management Institute by Pmi.
Orlando Sequera: If you have specific information
Orlando Sequera: about how do I purchase the learner, kid? You have to go through your contact in your organization, your specific organization, some of you. Most of you are coming from a different organizations.
Orlando Sequera: Find out who your corporate training contact person is, and they will be able to assist you with purchasing the learner kid. They say that requirement for the Pmp. Exam. Each candidate that is.
Orlando Sequera: that that is aiming to sit for the Pmp. Exam needs to have must have a learner, Kit. Okay, so some of you might have it already. But in the event of you not having the learner kid, you have to contact your
Orlando Sequera: person, your training staff in your organization.
Orlando Sequera: so they can assist you with a purchasing the learner. Kid. This is a must, okay
Orlando Sequera: and list.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to watch another video.
Orlando Sequera: and I still see some of you using the Qu. The Q. A. For comments as if it was the chat. It is
Orlando Sequera: intended for specific questions. Please be specific with the questions that's going to help us to
Orlando Sequera: help you. All right. Be very specific with the questions.
Orlando Sequera: Now
Orlando Sequera: we are going to.
Orlando Sequera: What's another video that is going to help us to understand a little bit more about
Orlando Sequera: a the learner. Kip.
Orlando Sequera: This is another requirement. So we have one requirement. Live attendance for the 35 h.
Orlando Sequera: with the exceptions, with the rules that we already have
Orlando Sequera: the second requirement.
Orlando Sequera: each candidate that is intending to sit for the Pmp Exam. Needs to have
Orlando Sequera: a learner. Kit.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. So we're going to watch a second video
Orlando Sequera: about the learner Kit.
In this video we will discuss the Pmp. Learner Kit, also known as your student Kit.
the Learner Kit, is produced and maintained by the Project Management Institute or Pmi, and it is tailored to the Pmp. Exam.
It includes a series of supplemental assets for your Pmp. Studies, such as a student workbook, checklists, videos, knowledge checks and the Pmi slides used in your Pmp. Exam. Prep. Training class or boot camp.
Let's start with the student workbook under student materials. The student workbook contains 350 pages, and it will help you to prepare for the Pmp. Exam.
This student workbook is aligned with the 35 h of instructor-led training that are provided in your Pmp. Boot camp. The Pmp's student workbook is divided into 6 sections which Pmi calls lessons. The first 2 lessons are business environment and start the project
lessons. 3 and 4 are planned. The project and lead the project team lessons. 5 and 6 are support project team performance and closing the project or phase.
This content aligns directly with the Pmp. Exam. Content Outline, which is found under student resources in your learner, Kit. Next, we'll talk about the student resources. When you click on this you will be presented with 4 different links, including a glossary
mastery Builder. Questions: a project case, study, and the Pmp. Exam. Prep. 3 course outline
the learner kit is required only for those who register for the Pmp. Certification. Exam.
You do not need the learner Kit to take a course for professional development units or pdus.
Take a course to learn about project management or complete your Pmp application.
You do need the learner Kit, to follow the pmi and skill soft recommended steps, and demonstrate that you are working with an authorized training partner or atp.
When Pmi reviews your Pmp. Application. They will review your education, your work, experience, and your 35 h of project management, classroom learning.
Since the learner Kit, is tied to an authorized training partner, Pmi, will know that your project management education was delivered by an organization that has been approved by Pmi.
We have referred to the term authorized training partner or Atp throughout this video, and you may wonder what is an authorized training partner. Pmi-authorized training partners are organizations that Pmi has approved
to offer project, management, professional or Pmp. Certification. Exam. Prep. For the Pmp. Exam. As well as disciplined agile training.
All authorized training partners are required to guide their students to Pmi's Pmp. Learner. Kit.
Please note that each Pmp. Student must have their own learner. Kit.
contact your corporate training staff for more information on how you get your learner, Kit, through Skillsoft, and redeem it through Pmi.
In some cases you may need to purchase your own learner, Kit. We will explain how to do this. But before you make this purchase, please check with your learning administrator, or corporate training staff. Once a learner hit has been purchased and assigned to you. It is not refundable
if you are certain that you need to purchase your own kit. These are the steps to follow.
Visit the web. Address skillsoft. Com forward, Pmp: hyphen, voucher, hyphen offering.
If you have access to the Pdf file that accompanies this video, you can also click on the button that says, Click here to order your learner, Kit.
The process is automated. Once you purchase your voucher, you will receive an email with your access key to be redeemed.
The email includes instructions on how you can set up an account with Pmi and redeem your access key to get your learner, Kit. We will also cover the steps together in this video.
Now we will discuss how to redeem your access key and register your learner. Kit.
Visit Pomi L. O choice.com.
If you do not already have a Pmi account, you will be prompted to create one@nochargeyourloginandpasswordwillbethesameforbothpmiandthepmilochoice.com website.
Now you can log in to logical operations to claim your learner, Kit.
once you are logged in to the Ello
voice platform, click the plus sign to add course, and you will be prompted to enter your access key.
The learner Kit, will appear on your dashboard
for questions regarding redemption of the access key. Please contact Pmi directly@customerserviceatlogicaloperations.com.
Once you register your key, you will have access to your student dashboard. Thank you for watching this video about the Pmp learner, Kit. If you have questions, please contact the skillsoft mentoring team@mentoringatskillsoft.com
Orlando Sequera: all right. A few pieces of important information here. The first one is
Orlando Sequera: to reiterate the fact that the learner cap is a requirement for those of you that are gonna be taking the Pmp. Exempt. You need to
Orlando Sequera: make sure that you purchase the
Orlando Sequera: the actual learner, Kit.
Orlando Sequera: You can contact your corporate train staff and your organization, and they will assist you. I see some of you pointing that out in the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: That is a most. It is a requirement for all of you.
Orlando Sequera: And what do we have in the learner, Kit? We went over that in the video? That's where you're going to have access to
Orlando Sequera: the student resources and
Orlando Sequera: all the information. Your student workbook that is provided
Orlando Sequera: officially by Pmi, and that is align with the content that we're gonna be covering in the 5 day session. Okay, that is extremely important.
Orlando Sequera: Them
Orlando Sequera: Your
Orlando Sequera: another important piece of information here we keep mentioning. They were atp
Orlando Sequera: skills. Soft
Orlando Sequera: is an organization so training organization that is vetted by Pmi.
Orlando Sequera: There are many atps out there. Skillssoft is a vetted organization by Pmi, and we provide you with official
Orlando Sequera: content in this training session for the Pmp. Exempt that has been vetted by Pmi. We are aligned with pmi standards. You are getting access to the official content for you to get ready for the Pmp. Exam: that's also a really important to keep in mind. Okay.
and
Orlando Sequera: let's continue a little bit more. And now we are going to start
Orlando Sequera: talking about the actual.
Orlando Sequera: the actual class. Okay. So a few things that are important. Remember, if you want to get access to any other resources, they're gonna recap that a little bit. We have covered some important housekeeping information.
Orlando Sequera: Go, If you're a perceived user Go to the resources, Tab.
Orlando Sequera: as we demonstrated a few minutes ago.
Orlando Sequera: Make sure that you are in the right place. Pmi, a Pmp boot Camp 5 day North America, and that will take you in the far right? You're gonna have resources. Click on that click on that tab, and you're gonna see all the list of resources that you have, including
Orlando Sequera: this videos, this information that we cover You're gonna find a link
Orlando Sequera: to the attendance tracker so you can download it. But what do I do? If I am not a per super user then Github. Okay, Github is going to be your source. The link has been a posted in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So it is a extremely important that
Orlando Sequera: you get access to the resources, and it's not only the attendance tracker and information about the certificate or completion all the resources that you need in your preparation. We have links to the formulas that we're going to be covering in the content. We have the the Exam Content outline, which is what you're gonna be tested on.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, in the Pmp: Exam all the resources that you need to be successful. I know important piece of information. Attendance. Is it mandatory? Yes, it is. It comes directly from
Orlando Sequera: Bmi.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. The 35 h for your Pmp. Xm: so that is, there are some exceptions. We went over them. Please watch the videos again to understand if it's more than if you're gonna be. If you missed more than 15 min. That's
Orlando Sequera: that. That's
Orlando Sequera: that's when you have to do. You have to contact our mentoring team to to work with them to get to get an answer. Alright, so during the breaks please stay locked in during the especially during the long hour the the lum break that we're gonna have
Orlando Sequera: it at it's gonna be a 1 30 Eastern for those of you that are on their Eastern time.
Orlando Sequera: So make sure that you stay locked in, because we're gonna be playing videos that cover this information that we have been going over.
Orlando Sequera: and also some vocabulary that is important. So useful videos. Let it play in the background. That is important for
Orlando Sequera: a for your learning process.
Orlando Sequera: The learner. Kit. We went over that. Do I need a learner, Kit. Yes, if i'm gonna be taking the Pmp. Exam. Every single candidate that is planning on taking the Pmp. Exam. Has to
Orlando Sequera: get a learner kid. How do I get the learner, kid.
Orlando Sequera: You need to contact your
Orlando Sequera: corporate training staff individual, and they're going to help you with that. I see that there's a message in the chat
Orlando Sequera: for those of you that come from onward to opportunity.
Orlando Sequera: Your case purchased directly by onward to opportunity
Orlando Sequera: at the time of your
Orlando Sequera: a purchase. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: They locked in during the entire session. Do not log off. Stay locked in. Let it run in the background. We're gonna be playing those video, especially in the long in the long break.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: we're going to start
Orlando Sequera: talking a little bit more about the exam
Orlando Sequera: about the
Orlando Sequera: the people by the Pmp. Exam. Let's get ready and
Orlando Sequera: welcome to your class. I know that we have been going over some important a items, and we're going to past the chat.
Orlando Sequera: But please remember, the chat is
Orlando Sequera: for for comments. If you have any specific questions about the topics that we cover.
Orlando Sequera: we are going to use those. Please make sure that you type the questions in the Q. A: okay questions in the chat are going most like you're going to be, Miss the tag. It keeps crawling.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So let's make sure that we are able to
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: that we are able to use the chat for what is intended
Orlando Sequera: to follow along the process.
Orlando Sequera: So let's talk a little bit about the actual.
Orlando Sequera: A Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: You are looking to get certified
Orlando Sequera: as a Pmp. Exam: that's a Pmp. Certified project manager.
Orlando Sequera: What are the requirements? They need your requirements?
Orlando Sequera: This comes directly from Pmi.
Orlando Sequera: If you have
Orlando Sequera: a 4 year degree
Orlando Sequera: from a college or university.
Orlando Sequera: then you need to be able to show proof
Orlando Sequera: of having been able to lead projects for 36 months, 3 years.
Orlando Sequera: hey? 3 years
Orlando Sequera: and you have to complete
Orlando Sequera: a 35 h
Orlando Sequera: project, management, education, training, or you need to have your cap and certification.
Orlando Sequera: So those are the requirements. If you have a 4 year for you Degree college.
Orlando Sequera: But what happens if you don't have
Orlando Sequera: a 4 year degree college? And I started to see some questions in the chat. Remember that that's not the place for questions. Questions. Go in the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: If you don't have a 4 year degree college you, if you have a high school diploma or an associate degree.
Orlando Sequera: You need to be able to show proof
Orlando Sequera: of being able to to to have worked leading projects for 5 years or 60 months.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so that's the difference. So you basically, if you don't have a 4 year degree college, you have to show proof of more experience.
Orlando Sequera: A managing projects in leading projects, leading projects.
Orlando Sequera: and you have to complete the 35 h of project, management, education, or
Orlando Sequera: a the cap and certification in
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: So those are the requirements for
Orlando Sequera: the initial requirements for getting the Pmp. Certification
Orlando Sequera: a little bit about the project economy. So this is the right time for you to get into project management.
Orlando Sequera: He
Orlando Sequera: most of the important world work that it's been done
Orlando Sequera: a at a global scale. Most organizations are using this approach
in
Orlando Sequera: any industry. Basically
Orlando Sequera: And this is gonna by getting your Pmp: certification. You're going to be part of this global economy.
Orlando Sequera: This is the the Pmp. Is growing in multiple regions. It's not just before it used to be mostly North America, but it's expanding in Europe and growing in the Apec region is growing because of the credibility, and because of the
Orlando Sequera: actual.
Orlando Sequera: the the actual content that is
Orlando Sequera: applicable to any industry. So many reasons for you.
Orlando Sequera: it to get the Mp. Certified, and you are going to be able to apply this principles. What! You're going to be learning here to your projects, regardless of the industry.
Orlando Sequera: So it's a great time to be in project management.
Orlando Sequera: Watch this video now
as we adapt to new ways of working and prepare for future disruption.
Organizations will see a growing need for skilled project managers.
the Pmi 2,022 jobs, report showcases emerging sectors and trending industries where project leaders can find opportunities to drive growth, and innovation in every region of the globe.
Countries in the Asia Pacific region expect their economies to grow in 2,022.
Meanwhile, talent is in high demand in many countries and industries.
While China's economy has experienced a slight slowdown, a number of factors should contribute to increased project activity, including consumer spending increases, and China's energy transition, plan.
supply, chain disruption and rising energy prices, along with rapid digitalisation, are driving an increased demand for project professionals in Europe.
especially in it.
The current conflict in the region will have long-term humanitarian and economic consequences. That will require response.
There has been a spike in demand throughout Latin America for project managers, particularly in the technology and manufacturing sectors.
rebounding oil pricing government investment in high-profile mega projects and international events like expo 2,020 Dubai, and the 2,022 Fifa World Cup, promised to reinvigorate the region's economy and need for project managers.
The great resignation and supply chain problems have put job seekers in high demand in the Us. And Canada as companies look toward automation and digitisation to protect against future disruption.
Despite the pandemic. The global demand for products manufactured in South Asia has continued to increase over the past 2 years.
As a result, companies are willing to invest more in project managers with strong innovation and leadership skills.
Nearly a third of global aid. Roughly, 32 billiondollars is spent in Africa, and that is fueling new development jobs across the region up to 45% of which will need project talent.
The demand for project talent is high around the world.
Are you ready to take your career to the next level.
Orlando Sequera: Right? It is exciting. So
Orlando Sequera: I,
Orlando Sequera: before we continue with the topics.
Orlando Sequera: i'm starting to see some questions in the chat about technical issues. Remember, that's not where they go. Let's let's follow
Orlando Sequera: the instruction. When I past the chat
Orlando Sequera: for a minute.
Orlando Sequera: Questions. I have technical issues.
Orlando Sequera: Please
Orlando Sequera: post a question in the Q. A. That's what it is intended for. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Questions: Go in the Q. And a. Section. If you post them in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: Chances are that they're going. They're they're not gonna be addressed. The chat is gonna keep scrolling. So let's please follow the guidelines. The questions the questions go in the Q. A. Section comments go in the chat, so please follow the guidelines that's gonna make it everyone.
Orlando Sequera: It's gonna make a better experience for everyone.
Orlando Sequera: As we have said. If you have specific questions about the learner, Kit.
Orlando Sequera: please contact your
Orlando Sequera: corporate training staff in your organization. Is it a requirement for the Pmp. Exam: Yes, it is, and it doesn't come from Skills of this is a requirement by Pmi: okay. So yes, it is. You need to get a learner, Kit, if you are going to be taking the Pmp. Exam
Orlando Sequera: for those of you that are having
Orlando Sequera: technical issues, audio, not working.
Orlando Sequera: If you are not working. The main recommendation is to log in using
Orlando Sequera: the
Orlando Sequera: the zoom information login through zoom, and that seems to help
Orlando Sequera: with that issue. And another reminder. Please be patient. We mentioned that. Please be patient. We're going to get to your questions.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to get to your issue. Please have a little bit of patience. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: we're going to do our best, and we're going to get to your
Orlando Sequera: E to your question. All right. So
Orlando Sequera: let's
Orlando Sequera: please make sure that we are able to follow those guidelines. If the chat starts getting out of control, we're going to. We're going to pass it.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: you will have to ask the questions. If you have technical issues
Orlando Sequera: A. Please post the questions in the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: If you have questions about the topics that we're covering.
Orlando Sequera: post them in the Q. A. And we will be able to
Orlando Sequera: A. We will be able to address those questions in a timely manner. I see a lot of questions about in the Q. A. Remember that those null men, those questions about my name. They're not going to get a a test. They're not going to get a reply. So the very specific
Orlando Sequera: with your
Orlando Sequera: with your issues. I am trying
Orlando Sequera: to watch
Orlando Sequera: some of the questions. If there's anything relevant.
Orlando Sequera: will we be able to re-watch the zoom under you in the Q. A. Section.
Orlando Sequera: It will be pre-watched. The zoom recording the answer is yes, the answer is. Yes, absolutely
Orlando Sequera: yeah.
Orlando Sequera: Yes, yes, yes.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: the link to the actual learner, kid. It's Pm: I don't know if it's.
Orlando Sequera: Bm: I don't know a lot choice.com
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: So we are going to.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to continue.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: now
Orlando Sequera: we're going to talk a little bit about the Pmp. Exam: so this is important.
Orlando Sequera: This is important. We need your attention here.
Orlando Sequera: The Pmp. Exam
Orlando Sequera: covers
Orlando Sequera: multiple approaches that you're going to find in
Orlando Sequera: project management.
Orlando Sequera: These approaches go from
Orlando Sequera: predictive.
Orlando Sequera: Probably
Orlando Sequera: most of you know it authorization or project management
Orlando Sequera: or waterfall.
Orlando Sequera: but it also
Orlando Sequera: covers
Orlando Sequera: as active approaches, which probably most of you know, as agile approaches.
Orlando Sequera: and then a combination of the 2
Orlando Sequera: combination of predictive and adaptive.
Orlando Sequera: which is what we call a hybrid approach.
Orlando Sequera: Hey?
Yeah.
Orlando Sequera: So Pmi covers Bmp exam covers all that spectrum.
Orlando Sequera: You're gonna have a meaning that you're gonna have questions associated with predictive. You're gonna have questions associated with adaptive. And you're gonna have questions that are associated with a combination of the 2.
Orlando Sequera: These change happened in 2,021 to really
Orlando Sequera: a adjust
Orlando Sequera: or update the the exam to the current reality that that is being faced by most organizations they working.
Orlando Sequera: Those are in that spectrum. Some of them follow a predictive approach. Some of them follow an adaptive approach, and some of them follow a combination of the 2, so to reflect the current reality. Pmi decided to update the content to that to reflect that new reality, meaning that
Orlando Sequera: by going through this content you're gonna learn tools that are gonna help you to navigate those approaches. Okay, and the breakdown of your Pmp. Exam. Is as follows.
Orlando Sequera: We have 3 domains. We have 3.
Orlando Sequera: The first one is the people domain
Orlando Sequera: that goes. It talks about the team and
Orlando Sequera: a also of our stakeholders. We're going to cover a lot of that, and that is going to be 42% of your exam. 42 of the 180 questions are going to be related to the people domain. Then we also have the process domain. This is about
Orlando Sequera: your ways of working, and it covers both predictive and adaptive. And of course, hybrid. 50 of the questions are going to be related to that. And then Probably the new element.
Orlando Sequera: I would say.
Orlando Sequera: would be business environment. These only accounts for 8%
Orlando Sequera: of the questions. But it is important. A basically we're.
Orlando Sequera: Why do we have to take into account the actual external environment and the internal environment, or the organization, and gives you an idea where projects come from and all those links, because projects are not done in a vacuum. So 8% of the questions are going to be related to the business environment. So that's the breakdown of your
Orlando Sequera: Pmp. Exempt
Orlando Sequera: right a. Before we go on our first break.
Orlando Sequera: I will also like to mention something that is extremely important. And this is
Orlando Sequera: this going to address a nervous legend, a common misconception out there
Orlando Sequera: that people tend to think that the Pmp. Is aligned with the PIN, but that is an exam solely based on the PIN. But guide, which, by the way, the latest edition is the seventh edition. That is not the case.
Orlando Sequera: The Pmp. Exam is based on the exam Content outline, which, by the way.
Orlando Sequera: it's one of the resources that you have.
Orlando Sequera: whether it is in per sepio or Github, you have access to that exam. Content outline. That is the syllabus of your exam.
Orlando Sequera: Those are the topics that you're going to be testing on.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, those are. If you want to know. What am I going to be tested on the Pmp. Exam. It's not the pinball guy.
Orlando Sequera: It is the exam Content outline.
Orlando Sequera: This was created by Pmi
Orlando Sequera: using
Orlando Sequera: a global selection of project managers from multiple industries
Orlando Sequera: that gave their input
Orlando Sequera: in regards to what they thought a project manager should know
Orlando Sequera: A. E. When it comes to doing the job, including experience and other basis concepts. So this is what you're gonna be tested on. If you want to know today day one.
Orlando Sequera: what am I going to be tested on the Pmp. Exam: it is the Exam. Content outline. Okay, the Exam Content outline.
Orlando Sequera: And this is a little bit of an example.
Orlando Sequera: This is again your syllables of your exam is broken by the 3 domains that we talked about before
Orlando Sequera: people.
Orlando Sequera: 42 of the questions are associated with the people domain
Orlando Sequera: them
Orlando Sequera: process 50 of the questions. So 90 questions are going to be associated with process
Orlando Sequera: in then business environment, which is
Orlando Sequera: 8% of the questions. Okay, you're going to see multiple tasks
Orlando Sequera: under each domain. And those are the topics that we're going to be covering in this
Orlando Sequera: but 5 day boot time session. We're gonna go over managing conflict that is related to people how to work with people. That's a huge component. That's an important topic. I'll make sure that I highlight that when we get to that section of the Content leading a team supporting team performance. This is what you're gonna be test
Orlando Sequera: tested on in the Pmp. Exam scenario questions that are going to
Orlando Sequera: allow Pmi to determine whether you know how to apply these concepts when it comes. Or these definitions in a practical environment. Okay, most of the questions are going to be scenario based. They're not
Orlando Sequera: testing your knowledge on the definitions. They're testing your knowledge on the application of these definitions. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: I see some questions. Where can we find the extent content outline? It's under the resource resource, Tab. We have it in there. It's it's one of the resources. You can go directly to pmi.org, and you can get it from there as well. Then you you will go to certifications, and then you can also get it a under
Orlando Sequera: under Pmp. And then the Exam content outline is gonna be available there as well. But we have it as a resource for you
Orlando Sequera: to review. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: we're gonna now, I see a question before we go on the break. Let's go over the references.
Orlando Sequera: These are the references.
Orlando Sequera: or that are used for the Pmp. Exam. As you can see here.
Orlando Sequera: it's more than just the PIN book. The PIN book is one of them. We have 10 different rest references. We have the agile Practice Guide.
Orlando Sequera: We have
Orlando Sequera: the team book, 6 edition and seventh edition is still relevant. There is information in the 6 edition about the process groups and about the
Orlando Sequera: If the the different the different processes, the 49 processes that is still relevant and applicable.
Orlando Sequera: And of course, the seventh edition is that was just released not too long ago. That is one of the references.
Orlando Sequera: but it's more than that. You have Dr. Curtis Kirner's book about project management. You have multiple multiple references.
Orlando Sequera: but the beauty of it is
Orlando Sequera: that all this content is a distilled version of all this over 5,000 pages
Orlando Sequera: of
Orlando Sequera: content that you will have to go through. So this is a distill version.
Orlando Sequera: What what we're going to be going over in this
Orlando Sequera: 5 days is that they still version of all this content. Okay, so
Orlando Sequera: it. The other practice guide
Orlando Sequera: important covers all the agile aspects.
Orlando Sequera: The PIN book guy
Orlando Sequera: still available in Pmi standards plus, and the seventh edition. That's the pinball guide
Orlando Sequera: a important, but they're not the only ones. They're not the only ones. If you want to know what you're going to be tested on is the Exam. Content outline. Okay, that's what you have to review the Exam. Content outline.
Orlando Sequera: That is
Orlando Sequera: the main takeaway from this portion of this section.
Orlando Sequera: I see questions about the exam content outline you. Ha! If you're a percipient user that's one of the resources you have it on the resources. If you're not a procedure. You can go to Github, and it's going to be one of the resources in the folder, or you can go directly to pmi.org
Orlando Sequera: and go to Pmp on their certifications, and you can get it directly from the source from the Pmi itself. Okay, 3 ways that you can get it
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: I
Orlando Sequera: we're gonna take a break. We're gonna take our first break, and we'll be back in 10 min.
Orlando Sequera: We are back
Orlando Sequera: as a chat or
Orlando Sequera: all right
Orlando Sequera: we are going. We were mentioning before we went and break, that
Orlando Sequera: the Pmp. Exam. Is not based only on the pinboard guide.
Orlando Sequera: It is based on
Orlando Sequera: multiple references. Here's the list of the references that you need to
Orlando Sequera: that you need to follow.
Orlando Sequera: But they
Orlando Sequera: we have some good news. This content is that is still version of this
Orlando Sequera: 10 references that you see on your list. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: that is the value of working with an authorized training partner like skill soft in this case it is important.
Orlando Sequera: It is important to keep in mind
Orlando Sequera: I
Orlando Sequera: one thing that I wanted to mention, that I wanted to bring up to your attention again the recommendation. If you're having a lot of audio issues, please use the zoom login information
Orlando Sequera: if you need to get to your resources and you are a procedure. User you want to. How do I get the exam company outline? How do I get the tenants tracker? Go to the resources, Tab, as we show before in per sepio, and it's going to be there so you can click on the the the tab as I showed previously.
Orlando Sequera: And you're gonna have the list of resources. What do I do? If if I am I? I am not a a percipient. User what do I do? What can I get to the resources? The answer is, yes. Use Github to get to the resources
Orlando Sequera: You're gonna be able to get to a folder, and the same resources are going to be available for you to use all the resources that you need for the class. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to continue with the content. And
Orlando Sequera: so these are the 10 references.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: let's talk about the exam. And I saw some questions before
Orlando Sequera: about the exam.
Orlando Sequera: Are all questions multiple choice. That was one question that I I saw in the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: The short answer is, No, most of them are, but they sure answer is no. How many questions do we have in the Pmp. Exam. We have a total of 180 questions, so it's a 180 questions.
Orlando Sequera: How much time do I have to complete the Pmp. Exam. You have
Orlando Sequera: 230 min
Orlando Sequera: to complete the exam.
Orlando Sequera: Jake.
Orlando Sequera: That means that you have
Orlando Sequera: 3 h and 50 min
Orlando Sequera: to complete the exam.
Orlando Sequera: A 180 questions.
Orlando Sequera: One
Orlando Sequera: addition the Pm. I made to the Pmp. Exam. Is that they incorporated breaks.
Orlando Sequera: I can
Orlando Sequera: back in the day when I took my Pmp. Exam. No breaks were part of the
Orlando Sequera: part of the exam, the actual exam experience. There were no breaks, so you had to account for. You had to build your time. Manage your time wisely. There were no breaks now. Pmi has incorporated 2 10 min breaks
Orlando Sequera: it so.
Orlando Sequera: And it's basically they have divided the exam. And this is the way it works
Orlando Sequera: in sections of 60 questions every 60 questions. So
Orlando Sequera: when you're getting close. Question Number 60. You're gonna get the option of taking a 10 min break.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so you will have to submit
Orlando Sequera: that section before you take your 10 min break. These 10 min breaks are no mandatory. They are optional. You don't have to take them.
Orlando Sequera: My recommendation is for you to take them.
Orlando Sequera: It is important. It will give you a chance to reset, so you can go a to the bathroom to the restroom, grab a snack, bring some water that's gonna give you a chance to reset. I encourage all of you to take your optional 10 min breaks.
Orlando Sequera: When you come back from break You're gonna start in the next set of 60 questions.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. So it will be questions
Orlando Sequera: if it's your first break. When you come back from your first rate, you're going to start. Question 60 all the way through. Question 120,
Orlando Sequera: and then you're gonna get the option to take a second 10 min break
Orlando Sequera: and do the same reset and then
Orlando Sequera: come back.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: that is gonna be Section number 2. But before you go on that break you have to submit
Orlando Sequera: that set of questions. Questions. Sixth. Section B or section 2. Do you have to submit it? You can go back to that previous section when you come back from break. So then you come back from your second break, and you start working on questions a 120 through 180,
Orlando Sequera: and that'll be the end of your exam. So it's basically 3 sections.
Orlando Sequera: and that you are going to be able to
Orlando Sequera: to have those breaks. And even if you take it from. So you can take the exam from home. That's what they call online Procter. You'll have
Orlando Sequera: this breaks.
Orlando Sequera: Or if you go to a
Orlando Sequera: a center-based test.
Orlando Sequera: You also have a Pearson view. That is the testing Provider organization
Orlando Sequera: used by Pmi.
Orlando Sequera: So you if you go to a PE PE Pearson View testing Center, you will have a the chance to take the actual breaks. But if you have a paper based exam, which I think probably that's is that will be the exception of most places are computer based tests that you can take.
Orlando Sequera: They, unfortunately have no breaks. But most people are gonna be either online proctor from home, or
Orlando Sequera: you're gonna have the chance to go to a testing center and let's go back to the questions. The type of questions that you're going to be facing.
Orlando Sequera: I see some questions in the chat about the type of questions. Most of them are multiple choice with one right answer, but some of them might have multiple right answers, which is what they call multiple response.
Orlando Sequera: Big
Orlando Sequera: 3 they make. They give you, for example, a 5 options, and then they ask you, pick 2, or pick 3, or choose to choose 3 out of 7, for example. So you might have more than one than one right Answer. That's a perfectly fine a. Or do you have multiple choice? They give you 4 options and pick one
Orlando Sequera: or questions in which you're going to have to match.
Orlando Sequera: That's a
Orlando Sequera: They give you a, for example, a definition, and then they give you a box, and then you're gonna have to match a that box. With that definition that might be the case, Not many of those what it happens, or they might also have questions about what they call hotspots.
Orlando Sequera: which is basically an example of that will be. They give you a graph of a process
Orlando Sequera: in this is related to quality right? And they might ask you, can you pinpoint where this process is out of control? So you will have to find out the area or where that process is out of control. That's just an example or questions in which you have to fill in the black. So you basically have
Orlando Sequera: 5 type of questions, but
Orlando Sequera: they
Orlando Sequera: on official data that we have been gathering is that most of the questions are multiple choice. The questions are scenario based. They're going to be scenario based, and it's a majority. They're not questions about definitions. That is the cap and exam. Remember that the Pmp. Exam. Is
Orlando Sequera: testing your ability to apply these definitions. This concept is not testing you on.
Orlando Sequera: How well do you know the definition of what you know the formulas? No. How well you know to apply
Orlando Sequera: these formulas, these definitions, these concepts that we're covering. That's what they're looking for application. And that's why the questions are situational
Orlando Sequera: in in most cases. Okay, so please
Orlando Sequera: make sure that you remember that for the Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: I am going to answer some of the questions in the Q. A. If I may and
Orlando Sequera: hmm.
Orlando Sequera: When I
Orlando Sequera: if an interview does not pass the exam on the first try of their options to retake the exam absolutely. But there's going to be a cost involved with that
Orlando Sequera: goal is for you to follow this preparation. So you are successful in your first try. You want to
Orlando Sequera: just once.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: a another question that I see here when
Orlando Sequera: when writing the Pmp. Exam. Who
Orlando Sequera: sorry they keep
trying to
Orlando Sequera: go to the top
Orlando Sequera: out of a 180 questions.
Orlando Sequera: do all counters passing, or some of them future questions.
Orlando Sequera: assume that all of them, Count Pm. This is a password. That's a good question. This is a pass or fail, Exam. So assume that every single question counts.
Orlando Sequera: because even if they have questions that are not taken into account to the score, you don't know that we, you don't know which questions are those. So assume that every single question counts. Answer them to the best of your ability, and, more importantly, answer every single question.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, every single question. Do not leave any questions on answer. Can you mark for review and come back later? Yes, you can do that, but make sure that you answer every single question before so meeting your
Orlando Sequera: answers.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: the path.
Orlando Sequera: The what is the past threshold that is prepared to information for Pmi. It's a password fell. Exam: Nope. We nobody knows. Whatever You see out there is gonna be unofficial.
Orlando Sequera: A passing rates for Pmi does not publish their passing rates.
Orlando Sequera: Okay? What other questions
Orlando Sequera: for more information on the questions
Orlando Sequera: you can download. They have sample questions from Pmi directly. I will go to pmi.org, and they have a document. I'm not sure if we have it on the resources. But there is some information about the questions. I will
Orlando Sequera: strongly suggest you to review that information.
Orlando Sequera: Will the system notify you? Which questions you have not be answered? No, no, you gotta go back and review and make sure you stop, you have to make sure that you do that. Make sure that you, if you have any questions smart for review, make sure that you answer those questions before you submit your exam.
Orlando Sequera: Another question about resources. Do we need to have experience in hand? An industry project? Remember that it's not industry. Specific project management can be. These principles can be applied to any industry.
Orlando Sequera: It's about using this this definitions in, and 36 months of leading projects that's directly from Pmi.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: right.
Orlando Sequera: Passing passing percentage. Nobody knows it's a password fill. Exam: Pmi: that's not published. They're passing right. So that is not
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: That's only up to Pmi, but you will know right away. Once you submit the last section the last set of 60 questions. You will know whether you pass right away in a matter of seconds. They're going to give you a con a message.
Orlando Sequera: Actually, they're gonna ask you to fill out a survey, and then they're gonna give you the message on whether you passed or or failed, the Exempt, and they'll give you your performance based on their domains.
Orlando Sequera: A. But it's not a numeric performance. They're going to give you whether you were below a target target or both target in the 3 domains. So that's all. That's what they give you
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: Another question that I see here are you allowed to have anything with? You know Everything that you need is gonna be provided at the testing center, or and if you're taking it from home, your work area has to be
Orlando Sequera: clean. Everything that you will need is it's gonna be in the session. So no, nothing. Everything has to be clear.
Orlando Sequera: Post example. Pm: I give access to this question. Nope.
Orlando Sequera: that's a no. They will give you a report on how you date on that particular domain, but they're not going to give you a specifically which question.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: How can you get ready for the Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: First of all, I will
Orlando Sequera: only suggest you to review the official site. Go to pmi.org
Orlando Sequera: that's gonna expand on the exam prerequisite some of these general questions that some of you might have go to pmi.org under certifications, and then go to Pmp. And all that in the detailed information is going to be available
Orlando Sequera: in there. Okay, the exam prerequisite. You're also going to have an access to the Exam content now.
Orlando Sequera: and they also expanded the Pmp. Exam in your Pmp. Handbook. That's also important information that you're going to be
Orlando Sequera: a there.
Orlando Sequera: How can you be successful? Heimed your Pmp: exam. For
Orlando Sequera: this is gonna and do because some of you might have this question. I'm surprised that I haven't seen this question yet in the Q. A. How long does it take in average to get ready for the Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: My experience, my experience, my the data that we have been gathering
Orlando Sequera: I tend to
Orlando Sequera: agree with the 100 h anywhere between 80 to 100 h. That's a good average. What I personally would say that is closer to a 100 h
Orlando Sequera: that is gonna take you to get ready for the Pmp exam.
Orlando Sequera: That is, on top of the 35 h
Orlando Sequera: That you are.
Orlando Sequera: That You have to dedicate for this class. So where do you start?
Orlando Sequera: You can start either
Orlando Sequera: by watching him per CPU the 35 courses for the Pmp. 2,021 update, which is the most up to day version of the Pmp exam.
Orlando Sequera: or you can start with.
Orlando Sequera: So you can start in any order okay that you have
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: these 35 courses that are also going to help you to solidify
Orlando Sequera: your knowledge of the different topics that we're covering for the Pmp. Exempt but remember, it is a must you have to take this class
Orlando Sequera: in order to get to to meet one of the requirements for your Pmp. Exam just watching the recorded content is is not enough. Okay? So you can start either way.
Orlando Sequera: And then you also have another extremely important resource that I that is going to answer. I saw that some of you were asking about mock exam questions
Orlando Sequera: in prosecution. You have access to test prep. This is a very important resource that is going to allow you to take practice questions, mock exams, questions that were written by Pm. By certified P. And P.
Orlando Sequera: That are very that are
Orlando Sequera: very close to what you're going to be facing in your actual Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: So.
Orlando Sequera: but it's gonna take you an average.
Orlando Sequera: I would say a 100 h to get ready for the Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, on top of the 35 h that we're covering here with this class.
Orlando Sequera: How long does it take? It it depends on your time availability, for some people can be 2 weeks. Most people, I would say, is gonna be a
Orlando Sequera: anywhere between 4 to 8 weeks. So a couple of months in average, I would say, depending on your availability. But it's pretty much how you allocate those a 100 h right? So, in a realistic
Orlando Sequera: assuming that if you're working full time, etc., so
Orlando Sequera: it's pretty much in average what's gonna take you to get ready for the Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: I see questions about the passing grade. This is a pastor failed. Exam. There's not a passing grade. This is exam is not great. It is a pass or failed. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: A. I'm. Reviewing the questions in the Q. A. There is another question about Where is the test? Prep. It's in for CPU go to percipient on the resources it is in persecuted. You have access to desperate. That is an important.
Orlando Sequera: a resource. So you can take your practice questions.
Oh, yeah.
Orlando Sequera: i'm trying to
Orlando Sequera: trying to re the questions. And
Orlando Sequera: do we need to pass all 3 sections? No.
Orlando Sequera: they it's a whole exam, even though it's broken down into sections. It's still one exam.
Orlando Sequera: The precipio include
Orlando Sequera: the
Orlando Sequera: I'm. Going over the questions
Orlando Sequera: you need to pass all section it all we need to pass. We need to. It's a Yes. You have to perform well in all 3 sections to pass the Pmp. Exempt.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Book coming off study wise to pass the exam. It covers all the content. But remember, we have resources. That's why we're highlighting the importance of the resources you need to go over your exam content outline. You need to review your learner, Kid. All the resources are going to be available to you
Orlando Sequera: A. As well. So it's.
Orlando Sequera: It's this plus using the resources and taking the practice questions as much as possible.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: okay. Let's go ahead and continue. This is the breakdown of
Orlando Sequera: the next 5 days we're going to get into content.
Orlando Sequera: This is a breakdown of the next 5 days, and this is a sequence that we're going to follow for our class.
Orlando Sequera: We're gonna start talking about business environment.
Orlando Sequera: And this is the foundational aspect of project management.
Orlando Sequera: It's gonna help us to understand
Orlando Sequera: a that philosophical aspect that foundational aspects, some business concepts
Orlando Sequera: that are important for a project manager to know. We're going to start with that.
Orlando Sequera: Then
Orlando Sequera: number 2. We're going to be talking about what we need to
Orlando Sequera: to cover and to know when we start our projects.
Orlando Sequera: This is the pre-planning stage
Orlando Sequera: a and basically what we need to have in mind about the stakeholders, the team, how to build that share understanding about what we're trying to do with our project
Orlando Sequera: and decide also what's gonna be the best approach. Should we follow a predictive approach? Should we follow an agile approach? Should we follow a hybrid approach? So that's what happens
Orlando Sequera: in that particular point. In time
Orlando Sequera: we start in the project. Then we're gonna go and start talking about planning the project. This is where, as a project manager, this is what we do. For the most part this is: we're gonna spend most of our time. We're gonna go through the different steps.
Orlando Sequera: We're gonna be playing this. Co: the schedule budget, different areas of our project
Orlando Sequera: and resources, risks, quality, etc.
Orlando Sequera: That's what's gonna happen in plan the project. And that happens
Orlando Sequera: whether we're following a predictive approach or an agile approach. We we're going to be spending some time in planning. Then the next lesson is
Orlando Sequera: about leaving the team we have to, we we're gonna be basically mainly focusing on your leadership skills. Remember that in most cases you're gonna be leading the team. It's not about directing the team. You're not telling them what to do. You have to lead the team to produce the outcome that is suspected from your project. So that's less on Number 4,
Orlando Sequera: less on Number 5. We're gonna be going over
Orlando Sequera: supporting how to support your project team.
Orlando Sequera: It's about performance. How can you get?
Orlando Sequera: How Can you help the team and guide the team in
Orlando Sequera: achieving the best performance possible? Right? So that is about again leadership that is also working with them, and it's a lot of it's. It's related to that first domain that we mentioned for the Pmp. Exam. That's about people that's people the people domain. So
Orlando Sequera: And then.
Orlando Sequera: as we're going to see in the definitions.
Orlando Sequera: a project is not an open ended endeavor. A project has a definitely beginning, a definite end.
Orlando Sequera: What we have to understand how we close projects, what needs to happen in order for a project to to close what happens in closure. There are some important things I need to happen, but
Orlando Sequera: projects always come to an end. Projects are, that's the main difference. By the way, between projects and operations operations are ongoing. They start when the organization starts a functioning, but they only end when the organization sees to exist.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: projects are temporary endeavors. They start, and they end at a particular time, even if it takes, if it's not. By no means. I'm saying that they're short. They can take multiple years, but they have a definite beginning, and they have a definite, and so this is pretty much
Orlando Sequera: the the roadmap that we're going to follow
Orlando Sequera: in the next 5 days.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: a a little bit of a guidance for the content that we're going to to follow some of the icons. You're going to see them multiple time. If you start seeing that those multiple arrows that is predictive.
Orlando Sequera: we're talking about predictive right? Then adaptive or agile, the rotary and things. And that basically means that we do things multiple times.
Orlando Sequera: And then, if you start, if you see one, that is the combination of the 2. That means hybrid. Okay. But we're gonna have some other icon. Some things are going to be important questions, discussions, etc. And one important aspect is the terminology, the vocabulary. That's why, at the end of it. It's
Orlando Sequera: at the end of each section. We have vocabulary. That is important for you to master. Remember what I said at the very beginning. We all need to speak the same language
Orlando Sequera: we need we, because in our organizations we might use different terminology. But for the Pmp. Exam. It is important that we come together, and
Orlando Sequera: language so it is important to
Orlando Sequera: to make sure that we understand the the the terminology, the vocabulary for the Pmp. Exempt.
Orlando Sequera: Another
Orlando Sequera: important aspect is that we have to go over.
Orlando Sequera: We're gonna have some case studies, and you have access to this in your learner, Kit.
Orlando Sequera: we're going to use some project examples. I want to try to bring some of my own as well. But
Orlando Sequera: this is one case. Study that we have for this lesson
Orlando Sequera: with a project manager, hem, fan, and we're gonna
Orlando Sequera: go through his experience interacting with him and the correcting and stakeholder. And this is an actual
Orlando Sequera: hybrid project that is going to help us to reinforce the different concepts and the different
Orlando Sequera: terminology and the different application of project management
Orlando Sequera: definitions that we're gonna be going over with our content. Okay, so it's a it's gonna help us to follow along, and i'll. I'll try to incorporate a some examples as much as possible to illustrate the points that we're covering.
Orlando Sequera: Also
Orlando Sequera: it for. And, by the way, this is the the we we're talking about shop industries. That is just a a a fictional company, and they do have a project. This is the project that that they have.
Orlando Sequera: It is a lifestyle center for shop industries.
Orlando Sequera: and they are.
Orlando Sequera: This is some of the background information. They're trying to develop a lifestyle center, probably close for those of you who has something close to a intergenerational center Y.M.C.A. Center
Orlando Sequera: that in covers design and a currency of retail and community spaces
Orlando Sequera: A. And they have a development partner. They have an initial, a budget for this project some 1 million dollars.
Orlando Sequera: and they have a 3 year timeline to complete this
Orlando Sequera: project. So that is one of the scenarios that we're going to be using a throughout the class.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: again.
Orlando Sequera: how can we map this course? This is important information.
Orlando Sequera: your student workbook
Orlando Sequera: that we can
Orlando Sequera: fine in our
Orlando Sequera: in our student in a learner. Kit.
Orlando Sequera: This is how the content that we are using the content that we're covering is aligned to your student workbook. So you can follow along.
Orlando Sequera: Today we're talking. We're going to be talking about the foundation. We're talking about the foundation.
Orlando Sequera: We're also gonna be going over strategic alignment benefits and value of projects, organizational culture, change and management
Orlando Sequera: governance. And we're going to wrap up today. Stop Today's session with project compliance.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: A: I.
Orlando Sequera: So that's gonna be our day one.
Orlando Sequera: I'm. Going to go over some of the questions
I
Orlando Sequera: before we continue, you mentioned something about how to get
Orlando Sequera: our Pmp. Learner. Kate, if we're going through on to opportunity, contact your staff
Orlando Sequera: person at onward to opportunity. Okay, you want to contact your.
Orlando Sequera: do you? I'm: I'm. Sure you have
Orlando Sequera: you have information, your contact, information, and one more to opportunity. They're very familiar with the process, and they can walk you through that process so contact your your person
Orlando Sequera: A. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: I'm
Orlando Sequera: going to go over some of the other questions. I see.
Orlando Sequera: If again, if you're still having a lot of issues, please.
Orlando Sequera: audio and video.
Orlando Sequera: I will recommend you to use the the to log in through zoom. That's gonna help you.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: I see some questions about breaks every 10 min we're gonna I'm: I'm sorry.
Orlando Sequera: Every hour. Approximately. We're going to have a break.
Orlando Sequera: We're getting ready for our second in a few minutes. But at the 3.5 h, Mark, we're gonna have a 1 h. Lunch. Break on that 1 h long break. Okay, please stay locked in. Do not log off
Orlando Sequera: when we go to that break. All right.
Orlando Sequera: all right. So I am going to continue and list it.
Orlando Sequera: Let's get this party started. I know that it is
Orlando Sequera: so. They won a lot of information, a lot of questions we're trying. Our moderators are doing their best to answer your questions in a timely manner please can
Orlando Sequera: please
Orlando Sequera: try to not over use. Do not use the Q. A. For comments. Please let's start by that. Let's set some growth before we get to work.
Orlando Sequera: Please, please, please do not use your Q. A. For comments.
Orlando Sequera: technical questions, questions relevant to the topics that we are covering.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: questions about the resources. Please
Orlando Sequera: let's try to make this the best experience possible for everyone.
Orlando Sequera: I am going to enable the chat, but
Orlando Sequera: if he gets out of control I'm gonna I'm going to post it again. Please follow along.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. Only ask questions. Use the Q. A. At with this question, right? If you really need to ask a question, not just to make a comment. That's not a question. Okay, we're trying to a and and review the questions. You might have some questions that are, do you have the right, the actual ability to vote
Orlando Sequera: on those questions? Let's
Orlando Sequera: someone else might have the same question. Let's avoid repetition, duplication, right. So if you help us with that, it's going to be a better experience for all of you.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: we are going to.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. The chat has been on past.
Orlando Sequera: and let's get started
Orlando Sequera: less on Number one. These are these are the topics that we're going to be covering. This is about foundation.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to be go going over strategic alignment.
Orlando Sequera: benefit some value.
Orlando Sequera: Why do we work on projects? Why do organizations
Orlando Sequera: follow this project? Management approach?
Orlando Sequera: We're going to talk about the organization and culture culture of your organization and change management and the impact that
Orlando Sequera: those elements are going to have on your projects. We're also going to go over
Orlando Sequera: for the Government super important and project compliance. That's how
Orlando Sequera: we're gonna wrap up a the content
Orlando Sequera: we the goals that we have
Orlando Sequera: with this lesson.
Orlando Sequera: We want to make sure that all of you understand what a project is, and how relates to the larger discussion of project management.
Orlando Sequera: the different type. We need to understand different types of organizational structures, the different types. And you're going to start seeing within that spectrum. Where can I place my own organization.
Orlando Sequera: We're gonna go over the principles of project management. And also we're gonna go over agile principles and how they relate to your project management. We're gonna go over strategic enlightenment.
Orlando Sequera: Why organizations have strategic goals, and how our projects relate to those goals that the organization has
Orlando Sequera: the impact of business factors on strategic alignment.
Orlando Sequera: And then the Alli may being able to understand that alliance between our projects and the basis strategy, there is a reason why organizations are investing time and money on those a projects.
Orlando Sequera: We need to also understand
Orlando Sequera: a little bit more of a value business value that is tied up to the definition of success of your projects. We're going to go over change Management Theory
Orlando Sequera: project Governance and Project Compliance.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: So basically we are going to
Orlando Sequera: start with foundation. We're gonna go over these foundational concepts
Orlando Sequera: related to project management that, of course, are found on your pinbook. I we're gonna start with some definitions that are key that are critical for us to start a talking the same language.
Orlando Sequera: Everything starts with the definition of a project.
Orlando Sequera: A project by definition is
Orlando Sequera: a temporary endeavor.
Orlando Sequera: And what do I mean by that?
Orlando Sequera: It's an endeavor that has a definite beginning and a definite end.
Orlando Sequera: It starts at a certain point in time, and it ends at a certain point in time. It's not ongoing.
Orlando Sequera: It has a definitely beginning with different, and some of you might think
Orlando Sequera: that
Orlando Sequera: by
Orlando Sequera: me saying or using the word temporary being, that it is a sure endeavor that is absolutely not the case for those of you.
Orlando Sequera: And, by the way, I should have done this before. I I know that many of you come from a some that are transitioning from the military
Orlando Sequera: to to the civilian life.
Orlando Sequera: First of all. Thank you for your service.
Orlando Sequera: Second of all, many of you can relate to this
Orlando Sequera: programs that the Department, the Us. Department of Defense has in place to develop
Orlando Sequera: class of
Orlando Sequera: that can take years multiple years, 25 years, for example.
Orlando Sequera: But it has a beginning and it has an end, because it's definitely beginning it has an end. It's not ongoing. It's not forever. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: It has a definitely beginning, has some end, and the goal with the project is to create something that is unique.
Orlando Sequera: Whatever it is, it might be a product.
Orlando Sequera: maybe a service.
Orlando Sequera: or it might be a result.
Orlando Sequera: Let's assume, for example, that we are working on
Orlando Sequera: your
Orlando Sequera: A on a we're working for a construction company, and what we do is build houses just for build homes. Only one type of home we always build the same type of home.
Orlando Sequera: But even if that's the case each time that we're building each home, even though there's the same functional characteristics and same model it's each house is. It is is a particular project.
Orlando Sequera: Okay? So it is. Each house is unique, and they're gonna have, even though it is the same model. Each house has unique elements, different location, for example, a and and they're gonna have some differences, but
Orlando Sequera: projects by definition are unique.
Orlando Sequera: their time limited. That's what what I mean by temporary endeavors. They have a different beginning of different and they drive change. They're going to be changing something. And, more importantly, for organizations. It's about creating value.
Orlando Sequera: either a business or an organization that the end goal of a project is to create value
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to success.
Orlando Sequera: There are multiple factors that come into play
Orlando Sequera: organizational project maturity
Orlando Sequera: for your management, effective mess.
Orlando Sequera: available resources and available funding
Orlando Sequera: skill levels for team members, and then super important aspect.
Orlando Sequera: It's about collaboration. It's about communication key aspects that we're going to be covering in this content. So products can be successful. And also how well do we understand the core problem that we're trying to address with the project, and they need their associated with that project. So
Orlando Sequera: it is really important to keep that in mind.
Orlando Sequera: I see a common in the chat. Yes, projects are time. Limited operations are ongoing, but that is the difference. But they also have projects and operations have one element that is common to both of them. And you're going to see them overlapping, which is resources. The project resources, are
Orlando Sequera: they? They're also gonna be working in supporting operations. So that's one element that both projects and operations have in common, which is resources. And that's why it it's something that we have to to keep in mind. Usually
Orlando Sequera: projects project resources are also gonna be working in supporting operations. So we have. We're gonna go over all of that. Okay, so they have differences, and they also have
Orlando Sequera: they? They also have
Orlando Sequera: similarities, as well
Orlando Sequera: remember.
Orlando Sequera: try to use the chat for the
Orlando Sequera: for, comments a. And
Orlando Sequera: let's use the Q a. For questions for it to topics.
Orlando Sequera: and i'll try to address that. But you there's a question that I would like to address.
Orlando Sequera: What if a project is not successful?
Orlando Sequera: Your organization is going to have some criteria for that and the good.
Orlando Sequera: and If you have a Project Management organization in place of Pmo, they're gonna have. They're gonna help you with that as well. But the goal is to
Orlando Sequera: follow that criteria
Orlando Sequera: and try to
Orlando Sequera: A, and and they'll have. You'll be able to make adjustments
Orlando Sequera: to help your project throughout the life cycle of your project to make it a successful project. You're gonna have the chance to do that. That's part of what we do as project managers. We are this towards some for project, and if we start seeing that things are going sideways, we can make adjustments. So you will have the opportunity to to do that. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: there's another question. What if a project was cancelled due to environmental factors? That's the end of life of the that's the end of the project. That that's it. It's that's that's one way it that can happen that probably will be closed, and that's the end of life for that project at that particular moment.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, let's keep. Let's keep the questions related to the topics. Okay, let's keep the questions related to the topics that we are covering.
Orlando Sequera: and let's go over that a little bit of the evolution
Orlando Sequera: of project management
Orlando Sequera: back in the sixties. That's when
Orlando Sequera: think about that. But that's where everything everything started to
Orlando Sequera: pretty much come up as a both as an art or as a science. This systematic approach that's when Pmi started actually in 1,969, and try to provide a framework for project management as a discipline is
Orlando Sequera: pretty much a as some authors define. Project management is both an art and a science.
Orlando Sequera: But if the application of
Orlando Sequera: knowledge that you learn through experience, skills, tools, and techniques. So you can produce a. To meet the project requirements. That's where it started. But now
Orlando Sequera: fast forward to 2,022. They
Orlando Sequera: organizations are more
Orlando Sequera: sophisticated. The environments that we are facing are changing constantly, constantly, and the level of complexity has increased exponentially. So it's not just about producing an output.
Orlando Sequera: buddies about
Orlando Sequera: adding value, making sure that those
Orlando Sequera: outputs that we produce with our project deliver value to the organization of stakeholders
Orlando Sequera: in the past.
Orlando Sequera: A very
Orlando Sequera: common definition of success was
Orlando Sequera: was the project deliver on time
Orlando Sequera: complete, the scope that was agreed upon.
Orlando Sequera: and the if the answers within budget within the budget that was a that was approved, for they they, if the 3 answers were yes, projects were considered successful. But now it's more about
Orlando Sequera: did that value, because organizations are getting smarter.
Orlando Sequera: and there's time they're starting to realize that it's. Oh, it's not just
Orlando Sequera: a project can be delivered on time
Orlando Sequera: within budget
Orlando Sequera: and covering all this code that was agreed upon. But did it really at value? So they're adding that extra element that is the the most important aspect, the the at business value, the that value. So that's the evolution for management. Organizations are looking at adding value, and we're going to start seeing that
Orlando Sequera: Co. Coming my more to the forefront throughout the content. But it's a very important aspect that we have to keep in mind.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: We have
Orlando Sequera: different life cycles, different approaches that we can follow for
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: for project management
Orlando Sequera: mentioned before. You might be wondering what are those symbols. The first one is.
Orlando Sequera: what is the first one that we see that the arrows
Orlando Sequera: what what is that? Does anybody remember? And please feel free to use the chat
Orlando Sequera: predicted. Correct is predictive
Orlando Sequera: plan based approach. We have to plan.
Orlando Sequera: and then the plan drives the project right, and our performance has to be aligned with the plans.
Orlando Sequera: and the new face is only going to start when we completed the previous face. This works really well in many industries.
Orlando Sequera: construction being one of them. I. It works really well, by no means. We're saying that this is not a good approach in some project situations. This is going to be the best approach some of the key roles. We have the sponsor.
Orlando Sequera: the individual that is going to authorize the project and the teams are going to be led.
Orlando Sequera: Remember that lit
Orlando Sequera: leadership
Orlando Sequera: by the project Manager
Orlando Sequera: M.
Orlando Sequera: What happens is that after projects are completed we're going to be transition. What we produce within the project to the custom
Orlando Sequera: at completion. That's what we call deliverables, right? That's what we produce
Orlando Sequera: with the project for the project. Life cycle delivers
Orlando Sequera: that house that is spilled if we're building it, the progress to build a house when we start installing the windows, completing the floor, completing the structure as we go through the life cycle that those tangible elements that are being produced by the project work being done by the team. Those are our project delivers
Orlando Sequera: in
Orlando Sequera: the value can be realizing
Orlando Sequera: in the short term, and also in the long term when the entire product is being completed. So that is predictive, that is, waterfall that is traditional. All of them are are equivalent.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, then.
Orlando Sequera: we have the next one, the rotary, remember.
Orlando Sequera: and that means that it's done multiple times in iterations. That is the agile approach.
Orlando Sequera: This is a change based approach in if we're following the magic approach in situations in which we know
Orlando Sequera: that
Orlando Sequera: we're gonna be experience experiencing multiple changes or in situations in which there is a high level of complexity.
Orlando Sequera: We know that
Orlando Sequera: we know the End goal where we're trying to produce, but we don't know how to get there, so if that means change, so it goes back to change, so it's a change base approach that is going to help us to navigate complexity. We navigate situations in which we know multiple that we're going to be facing multiple changes. You might be
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: You might be thinking, Well, can you give us some examples? Absolutely.
Orlando Sequera: Let's assume for a second that we're trying to build a spaceship to go to
Orlando Sequera: to go to Mars.
Orlando Sequera: That's very complex.
Orlando Sequera: Hasn't. Been done before. Well, by definition, probably is unique, but that's there's a lot of complexity, right? And we're we're trying to come up with a new, a technology for for rocket engines, for example, something complex that has some been done before. That means that we're going to be. We need.
Orlando Sequera: We need an approach that is flexible enough to make changes that it's going to allow us to make core. We're going to be changing course. Course direct e it. We're going to have to maneuver through a lot of changes, right? We can have an approach that is rigid.
Orlando Sequera: Daddy
Orlando Sequera: doesn't allow us to manage change in a flexible way. We're going to be experiencing multiple changes. Okay, so that's when we use an agile approach when the scope is really complex. Or.
Orlando Sequera: for example, when we are
Orlando Sequera: it it doesn't have to necessarily be very complex. But we we are. That's why Agile is so popular in software development. For example, look at whether you're an Android user or an iphone. User
Orlando Sequera: Your mobile app is another example. These mobile apps are driven by your by customer.
Orlando Sequera: but by by by customer expectations and customer preferences. And that means a lot of changes, right? And that's why every week or every 2 weeks or every few days. In some cases we started seeing updates updates
Orlando Sequera: in in your in in the app store. Right? So we have. We have this update that is going to help you to navigate this there that does change. So.
Orlando Sequera: in order to navigate a situation in which
Orlando Sequera: there is a high number of changes that's. When this is going to be your best bet
Orlando Sequera: your you for it's better to follow at change-based approaches. Not a plan based approach a change based approach is going to help you to navigate those changes in a more efficient way.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: the rolls, the key rolls. Here
Orlando Sequera: we have a product owner, which is
Orlando Sequera: customer representative, is a liaison between the pro, the the project team and the stakehold, their stakeholders. The business
Orlando Sequera: that knows really well about the scope of the project is the this tour of the scope, basically, and it's also going to control the value proposition that you have the project team in the bill that are going to be working on the project. You have
Orlando Sequera: your the people doing the work, and then you also have a team lead
Orlando Sequera: A. Do you have your a scrum, master? If you're following
Orlando Sequera: scrum approach? That's not the only a flavor of agile.
Orlando Sequera: but
Orlando Sequera: it's the most popular.
Orlando Sequera: It would you might have a coach, and you might have a facilitator which are closely aligned to what the project manager will do, and the way things are done
Orlando Sequera: is
Orlando Sequera: I' they're gonna be a little bit different. We work in what is called iterations or in scrum. They're known as print. We deliver insurance
Orlando Sequera: iterations anywhere from one to 4 weeks. Most organizations use a 2 week duration for the iterations, and that's where they start building those deliverables, and they get transition quicker.
Orlando Sequera: Who they they get that functionality gets released in a in a, in a constant, in in a constant way to the basis so they can start using it. They don't need to wait until the end. The entire functionality
Orlando Sequera: Bill. Right? We can deliver an increment
Orlando Sequera: align to what? To the functionality that adds the most value to the customers, and by working in those those short iterations and gathering that feedback.
Orlando Sequera: That's how we can make, we can change course. We can make corrections as needed. Okay, that's how we can navigate change. I'm. Going to review
Orlando Sequera: a few of the questions before
Orlando Sequera: a few of the comments.
Orlando Sequera: The first approach is called a waterfall. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: adaptive is agile. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: predictive is rigid
Orlando Sequera: compared to agile. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: and how the Pm. Different from I to it, is not cover in the scope of the Pmp. Exam. It's a.
Orlando Sequera: So that's out of scope.
Orlando Sequera: Predictive is a better option when you know what the final outcome needs to be. But when the final outcome is maybe not that some definite Well.
Orlando Sequera: if you know
Orlando Sequera: what the fun like on needs to be, and you have, and you have a lot of knowledge, and you have done it multiple times. You're familiar with that scope. So that's why a construction is a good example. We work in a construction company, and we build
Orlando Sequera: a one story home. That's
Orlando Sequera: we only build 2 models, and we have done it multiple times. We know the scope
Orlando Sequera: Really? Well.
Orlando Sequera: we have done it multiple times. The team is familiar with the scope.
Orlando Sequera: We know how to get there. It's not only knowing what needs to be built. It's also knowing how to do it right with for other projects. So in those situations it's better to use a predictive.
Orlando Sequera: My styles the
Orlando Sequera: i'm reviewing the comments in the chat on this point.
Orlando Sequera: Customer feedback impacts the lifecycle on the final outcome in agile Yes.
Orlando Sequera: it drives it.
Orlando Sequera: A. What is the difference between agile and incremental incremental is a characteristic of agile agile, is both incremental and iterative.
Orlando Sequera: because we build
Orlando Sequera: in increments. We don't deliver all the functionality at once. In one iteration we build an increments we did we deliver, because remember, in one to 4 weeks you don't have enough time to be depending on what the functionality is. You don't have enough time to build all the
Orlando Sequera: Oh to deliver all the functionality. So that's why we deliver in increments. Agile is both.
Orlando Sequera: and incremental.
Orlando Sequera: Another question would you say that agile helps prevent a bunch of detailed rabbit hole work before thrown thrown out? It seems so
Orlando Sequera: in a way. Yes, it seems like predictive output can be of base. Yes, because we do a lot of planning in predictive. We have to do a lot of planning. We can go through the wrong ribbon hole to your question. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: the
Orlando Sequera: Where's the traditional product manager? It's closer to this from master, but it's not a recognized role, but we work with them.
Orlando Sequera: And I kind of plan base
Orlando Sequera: kind of a plan based approach. We change based on project to a change. Base? Yes, and that is
Orlando Sequera: what we call hybrid.
Orlando Sequera: You can make some match this approach
Orlando Sequera: if you starting to it, because for some areas of your
Orlando Sequera: the scope of the project. That is the key aspect. By the way, you might be wondering how do I know which i'm surprised if this question Hasn't come up. How do I know which is which approach? Should I follow
Orlando Sequera: that the scope, the the type of scope that we're working with is going to be your best bit. Look at the scope. Do! Are we familiar with the scope really familiar? We have done it multiple times. Hmm. That might be a hint for
Orlando Sequera: predictive. Oh, this is something that we have never done before, and it's very complex, and we know, going in that it's gonna have multiple changes that is, code for adaptive or agile. So pay attention to the scope.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Reviewing the questions in the Q. And a.
Orlando Sequera: A. Please remember to use the voting feature.
I see
Orlando Sequera: a few questions.
Orlando Sequera: Most of the questions that I see are
Orlando Sequera: about technicals
Orlando Sequera: and change approach. We applied any time. Yes, you can change it, you can change your approach.
Orlando Sequera: What is the product seems to be extending more than the schedule plan. It depends on the approach and the depend. The depends on the approach you are following for that. There are ways to address it.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
and
Orlando Sequera: for a manager and scratch it can work together. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: and before we go and break we're gonna have
Orlando Sequera: we're gonna take?
Orlando Sequera: We're going to go over
Orlando Sequera: the different types of Project mansion offices that we have
Orlando Sequera: to help organizations to be smarter
Orlando Sequera: may in many cases they have what we call a project management office organizations that are mature enough.
Orlando Sequera: A startup. Usually it's not gonna have a Pmo. But to help them to to with those discussions that are coming up in the chat. And they're also coming up in the Q. A oh, but when do I use how? Why.
Orlando Sequera: Why should I use predictive? Why should I use a a adaptive or agile? How do we do that? How do we implement that? So organizations
Orlando Sequera: experience that as well? So for that to address the beauty of project management is to be able to have a systematic approach. And what do I mean by that is to be able to repeat these processes?
Orlando Sequera: For that reason, in many cases, usually larger organization have them. They create. They created what what is called a project management office. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: A pretty much from office. It's gonna drive it's a group of
Orlando Sequera: project managers with a hierarchy that is well established, and they're going to be able to provide support to the organization
Orlando Sequera: so they can conduct their projects. They are multiple flavors of product management offices. We have what is called supportive, and I'm going to say that most organizations follow this approach
Orlando Sequera: it's about best practices for project management. It's about methodologies that we should follow. Remember that these
Orlando Sequera: covers every single industry, some industries.
Orlando Sequera: a construction marketing research on development manufacturing so multiple industries. So they're going to be supporting best project management practices for that industry, and they're going to provide that coaching, that mentoring that guidance to project managers. And they're also gonna be a source of those templates. We're gonna go over plans and different templates and documents that we have to create. Where do we get those Usually from the Pmo. If it's in place
Orlando Sequera: in some other cases they can be controlling, because, depending on the industry. Again, we have to make sure we might be.
Orlando Sequera: there might be a mandate. There might be a hard, a legal requirement in some cases, for you to follow a specific standard, a specific policy in the government. Different levels of government happens all the time you are required to have a project management plan, You are required to create a average register, for example. So
Orlando Sequera: this in this case, or in in those situations, pmos can be what we call a controlling. Make sure that we are compliant with those requirements, or they can be directive, meaning that they have a higher level of authority. They in when it comes to managing shared resources, and
Orlando Sequera: before a
Orlando Sequera: is resources you get a look at it from 2 perspective. The people doing the work.
Orlando Sequera: Remember that they usually support operations and project work, but also physical resources, not just the people. It's also a conference rooms, a or printers that you need to have access or 3D printers Anything that you need.
Orlando Sequera: 2
Orlando Sequera: complete the project work. Those are resources as well.
Orlando Sequera: and a coordination between multiple projects
Orlando Sequera: that is also done by a directive organ, a Pmo.
Orlando Sequera: And in some cases for agile organizations.
Orlando Sequera: They have what they call centers of excellence. They can help in coaching, building that agile mindset for the organization to help them to transition to a more of an agile mindset if that's their journey, and they also help the different roles that we have in those agile teams to
Orlando Sequera: follow best practices through mentoring and coaching, so they can do so they can get better at what they do
Orlando Sequera: right. So we are getting awfully ready for
Orlando Sequera: our next break. I would like to address some some of the questions.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: who offices or provides a private work?
Orlando Sequera: It's gonna be specific to the organization. But yes, do you mind? Do you have a project sponsor and you have
Orlando Sequera: a your product Owner is going to be that liaison that is going to be in charge of the scope. So it's. Your
Orlando Sequera: Your
Orlando Sequera: product Owner is in charge of that, and you can have a sponsor working on that as well.
That's this.
Orlando Sequera: Does this to can cover both pinbooks 6 and 7. Yes, yes, we that's what I mentioned like an hour ago. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: we are this stealing all the different references.
Orlando Sequera: and remember, that is not based on just the pinbook exam is the the exam is not just based on the pinbook. So please throw that away. You have all the content that you need to know here in this
Orlando Sequera: these lessons. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: One thing that I want to point out I see great. Input but if somebody has specific questions about the exam, please give us a chance to
Orlando Sequera: answer those questions.
Orlando Sequera: This might be different from your organizations. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: A:
Orlando Sequera: Our Pmo. Covering detail for this course. No, this is as as detail as we're going to be going
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to pmos
Orlando Sequera: it.
Orlando Sequera: And before we go and break. We have
Orlando Sequera: what we call organization project management.
Orlando Sequera: We have to take into account the external environment of the organization. And this is where those factors we're gonna talk about enterprise, environmental factors like marketplace conditions, how they have an impact on the projects.
Orlando Sequera: We have internal environment, like organizational culture. Those factors also have an impact on your on the projects that we're covering. And then
Orlando Sequera: we're gonna start getting into something that I see in the chat
Orlando Sequera: a about portfolios, programs and projects and the difference between them. That's this is the actual roadmap of how how organizations break down their individual initiatives, and they also group them so they can make a little bit more sense.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Alright. So let's take our next break. We are going to take a break and we're going to be back in 10 min.
Okay.
you
Orlando Sequera: and some of you were having these questions about the portfolio programs and project management.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: basically
Orlando Sequera: I want you to think of the organization of the highest level when they set their goals. For example, we're trying to
Orlando Sequera: grow in the
Orlando Sequera: European market by 20% in the next 3 years.
Orlando Sequera: That's a business. That's a strategic goal that the organization has what we, as the supporting organization, have to do. And this is what, by the way it's done by the sea Level Executive, that the see you start with the CEO, the organization and the different sea level executives.
Orlando Sequera: This is what they're going to be a setting for
Orlando Sequera: the organization.
Orlando Sequera: So as the supporting organization, we have to provide a way
Orlando Sequera: for those
Orlando Sequera: strategic goals
Orlando Sequera: to come to fruition. And that's where project management comes into play. So we break it down
Orlando Sequera: into
Orlando Sequera: relabels.
Orlando Sequera: We start with a portfolio level.
Orlando Sequera: and this is where we can compile and and collect and group all the different individual initiatives that we call projects that are related to those strategic goals.
Orlando Sequera: Perhaps those projects.
Orlando Sequera: some projects have come on elements, and they are targeting. They have similarities, and we can group them. It's a collection of individual initiative. That's what we call a program.
Orlando Sequera: and by grouping those. In some cases we can group similar programs and similar individual initiatives that we call projects into portfolios. And that's how we can provide
Orlando Sequera: support
Orlando Sequera: for those strategic goals that the organization has in place. It's a way of grouping individual initiatives, and that's where we have portfolio management.
Orlando Sequera: A portfolio managers that are managing for different performers in the organization. So basically a collection of programs and projects that are
Orlando Sequera: similar that are providing
Orlando Sequera: support for a specific strategic goal. Then we also have another level which is
Orlando Sequera: in which we have pro program managers.
Orlando Sequera: They
Orlando Sequera: are managing group groups of projects.
Orlando Sequera: the in my court
Orlando Sequera: the native way, because they
Orlando Sequera: same it shared resources amongst themselves and shared dependencies, and it's better to group them for the decision making process. Remember that an important aspect of product management is the decision making process, and then we have the individual initiatives in which we have projects, and for those we have project managers.
Orlando Sequera: So that is the difference between a portfolio management program management and project management.
All right.
Orlando Sequera: organizational structures. We have multiple types of organizational structures. Okay?
Orlando Sequera: And this is something that we, as project managers, need to understand, because we have to navigate these these organizational structures really Well.
Orlando Sequera: they're gonna help us to understand how we can
Orlando Sequera: how we're gonna manage our projects and most effective way. We need to understand that this is for the intel work that we have to do. As a project manager. We need to understand what type of organizational structure is in place in the organization.
Orlando Sequera: because this is going to have an impact on how we work with our resources, with our people
Orlando Sequera: a super important aspect. How much authority do I have as a project manager, and it's also going to help me to understand when the resources are going to be available, and how we can coordinate that. And also, how can we conduct the project in the most successful way it is important. You need to
Orlando Sequera: understand. Try to learn that as quickly as possible, and the key aspect is with
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to our 30 in
Orlando Sequera: here. We have
Orlando Sequera: functional organization
Orlando Sequera: in which
Orlando Sequera: this is the traditional breakdown in 2 departments
Orlando Sequera: that many organizations have.
Orlando Sequera: and it is really important to understand that
Orlando Sequera: your level of authority as a project manager. If it's a functional organization, it's going to be very low.
Orlando Sequera: The team members are going to be reporting to a
Orlando Sequera: manager.
Orlando Sequera: a functional department manager.
Orlando Sequera: They're gonna be reporting to their manager, and you are going to be.
Orlando Sequera: If your level of authority is going to be really low.
Orlando Sequera: The members report to the functional managers it in the any, the control that you have, or the over a team members
Orlando Sequera: basically close to none. So you have. You have to use leadership. You have to, and you have to coordinate with those functional managers
Orlando Sequera: in order to have those resources available. So You need to understand that in this scenario questions for the Pmp. Exam. Look for hint that.
Orlando Sequera: or for any hint, any clues that they might give you about the type of organization. It's really important that you understand what type of organization working with. If it's a functional organization.
Orlando Sequera: you know immediately that your level of a 30 is very, very low.
Orlando Sequera: The opposite side of the spectrum is Project Oriented organizations. There's some organizations that do not have that breakdown by department.
Orlando Sequera: They were based on projects. So it's basically
Orlando Sequera: teams multiple things
Orlando Sequera: with a project manager. That is also the functional manager. And by that I mean the person that signs your yearly review, right? Your yearly evaluation.
Orlando Sequera: A. And it's also the project manager and teams move from project to project to project. In that case your level of authority is very high. You have. You call the shots, you have all you can make, all the decisions.
Orlando Sequera: and you have
Orlando Sequera: you. You make the decision when it comes to to the
Orlando Sequera: to the resources and resource availability that you, during their your direct report. So that's what happened.
Orlando Sequera: Project oriented projectized organizations. But most organizations are
Orlando Sequera: in what we see here in the middle. They are part of a matrix organization.
Orlando Sequera: The Matrix organization, by the way, has
Orlando Sequera: 3 flavors.
Orlando Sequera: If it's a weak matrix, it's very close to a functional organization with matrix your level of a 30 slow.
Orlando Sequera: a medium
Orlando Sequera: balance matrix, your level of authority medium. And then, as from matrix is very close to a projectized organization, your level of a 30 is rather high, so it's reading print for you to understand what type of
Orlando Sequera: organizational structure working with most of them are going to be within the matrix flavors.
Orlando Sequera: because that's what's going to help it to understand how.
Orlando Sequera: what, how much authority, how much saying you have when it comes to the project, what type of coordination! But usually it's gonna be in the matrix, and you're gonna have. And in most cases you're gonna have to work
Orlando Sequera: through negotiation through communication with functional managers for resource availability. Your level of authority is gonna be in most cases a medium to low. You're gonna have to work with a functional manager for resource availability. So pay attention to the type of
Orlando Sequera: organizational structure in this scenario question. And even if your own organization, or when you transition to a new organization that's gonna help you, they to understand the landscape on how things are done in your organization.
Orlando Sequera: All right. I see some questions about technical issues. They go in the Q. A. Okay. They go in the Qa. They don't go in the chat. Let's use a chat for content. Related questions.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: They, this is a recommended activity.
Orlando Sequera: You can think of a project, and try to put yourself in this scenario. A. How?
Orlando Sequera: What is the type of interrelationship in your organization? What is your level of authority, I will venture to say that most of you are going to say matrix. I will venture to say in the reason for that it's a statistically. It's 80% or more of organizations fall within the matrix type of organization. How resource
Orlando Sequera: availability is managed, and how projects are conducted, and that's something that you have to pay attention to. This is something that you learn with experience. The first go to
Orlando Sequera: a resource will be a Pmo.
Orlando Sequera: If there's a pmo in place. They're going to help you to navigate
Orlando Sequera: this landscape. But you need to understand quickly, especially if it's your if it's a new job in a new organization. This is part of your initial. This is part of the beginning. The first initial steps that you have to take in understanding how things are done? What? What are
Orlando Sequera: the different? What what is the the structure here? I mean? It takes time. Sometimes it's not as clear, depending on the type of industry. Sometimes it's it's clear card. Sometimes it's not. So you have to navigate this part of your job as a project manager. It's gonna help you to be successful. You need to understand what type of
Orlando Sequera: organization you're working with.
Orlando Sequera: All right. AIM
Orlando Sequera: a few principles that might help you. And, by the way, you do not need to memorize this for the Pmp. Exam what he helps. These are some principles that might help you
Orlando Sequera: be. You are as tour. You are, as tour of the resources, your store, the budget of store, and scheduled this tour of your project. Be diligent.
Orlando Sequera: be proactive, and be respectful.
Orlando Sequera: understand, recognize, understand, and respond to systems interactions. That's why we need to know the landscape
Orlando Sequera: and and we have to under. Look at the bigger picture. Okay, we have to be able to navigate complexity. It's going to happen. It's not always going to be
Orlando Sequera: blue skies and clear skies. We're gonna face some storms. It's gonna happen we're gonna have to navigate complexity. It's about collaboration
Orlando Sequera: with the team and stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: It's about leadership. Remember that for the Pmp. Exam it's about leadership not about command and control. I know that for those of you that are coming from the military command and control West, your bar and butter for many, many years. Here is about leadership, of course, leadership what's also part of your bread and butter, but mainly command and control. Right? So here is about leadership. In most cases you're not going to have that level of authority.
Orlando Sequera: But you have to still get
Orlando Sequera: things
Orlando Sequera: to do the work, even without the authority. That's what we're gonna learn here optimizing the risk responses, addressing risks, engaging with stakeholders. We do that through communication
Orlando Sequera: we have to be able to tailor. That's why there's there's not a prescription on how to do it. We're giving you. You can follow an adaptive approach. You can follow a predictive approach. You can combine the 2.
Orlando Sequera: The these are the the tools that are available to you, and you can tailor that to your specific context.
Orlando Sequera: by definition contexts are different. Each organization is facing a different context. So you have the flexibility to make some match. This. Not about it. It's not a recipe that you have to follow. Do you have multiple a approaches available. It's about a being able to be
Orlando Sequera: to that, and being able to be resilient, focus on value.
Orlando Sequera: it
Orlando Sequera: incorporate quality into what is what is being done, and also
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: enable change. For
Orlando Sequera: to make sure that the envision, future state comes to fruition. So we have the end. Goal is to produce that feature state that we're trying that we're trying to achieve with the project. And we have to
email will change for that to happen.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: this is
Orlando Sequera: going to be found on your pinbook. Seventh edition. How we go from the principles that we just cover the philosophical foundation to the performance domain
Orlando Sequera: domains that you're gonna find in mainly in your pinbook. Seventh edition. These are the different a performance domains that you have to take into account for your project. And remember that these principles and performance domains are the philosophical foundation. That is a that you need to take into account for your projects. Okay, we're
Orlando Sequera: talking about the stakeholders, the team they approach that we have to follow that we briefly mentioned the 3 that we have
Orlando Sequera: the planning stages, the project work that we have to complete to produce project outcomes.
Orlando Sequera: the delivery measurement and uncertain.
Orlando Sequera: So you have to memorize this for the Pmp. Exam. But
Orlando Sequera: it will help you to understand a. And if you want to do a deeper dive, that's where the Pinbook Seventh edition is going to help you.
Orlando Sequera: Remember. I'm looking in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: Please use the chat for content, related questions as most most of you have been doing. You have technical issues. Use the Q. A. Because the chat keeps scrolling. Okay, the Q. A. Is better for that.
Orlando Sequera: Let's talk a little bit about agile. That approach that might be new for some of you
Orlando Sequera: imagine we have
Orlando Sequera: agile is
Orlando Sequera: comes from a he started in 2,001,
Orlando Sequera: and it comes from the 4 values that were written in the agile manifesto back in 2,001, and they also have 12 principles
Orlando Sequera: agile. I want to start by saying, that is like ice cream. You're gonna see me. I love food. So you're gonna see me. You're gonna hear me making a multiple nige and that analogies to food. And this is one of them agile. It's like ice cream. Most people tend to think that all agile is from that's only one flavor. It's like chocolate, or whichever flavor you think, is the most popular.
Orlando Sequera: Hey?
Orlando Sequera: The
Orlando Sequera: The agile manifesto, as I mentioned, was written 2,001,
Orlando Sequera: and this is probably going to help you to understand a a little bit more. Why, that
Orlando Sequera: common misconception, that agile is only applied to software development. That's where it started. That's where it started in 2,001. It was a group of software developers
Orlando Sequera: they got together, and that was here in the Us. And Utah at a ski resort, and they wanted to come up with a different approach, because the predictive approach for their industry was in
Orlando Sequera: was not caught in. It was not producing the results. It was very cumbersome from that plan. Driven approach was not
Orlando Sequera: efficient for them. So they get together, and they came up with the agile manifesto
Orlando Sequera: 4.
Orlando Sequera: Their specific situation for software development.
Orlando Sequera: We we are uncovering better ways of developing software by doing it and helping others how to do it. And they came up originally with this 4 values.
Orlando Sequera: The first one is
Orlando Sequera: individuals and interaction over processes and tools.
Orlando Sequera: People. The people that are doing the work are more important than processes and tools.
Orlando Sequera: They're not saying that processes and tools are not important. There's they were saying that the people that are doing the work.
Orlando Sequera: and the people that the work is being done for
Orlando Sequera: are more important than the processes and the tools that are more important than Microsoft Project. They're more important than a
Orlando Sequera: than the different tools, or the jira a dashboard that we have for projects. So there, that's what they were saying. People are more important. We do projects for people pricing Don't buy people for other people, so they're more important than processing tools. The second one producing something that works
Orlando Sequera: because they were able to. They were software developers versus something that works. It's more important than
Orlando Sequera: comprehensive documentation. This is another misconception of by no means that we're saying
Orlando Sequera: documentation is not important or even worse than that, that there's no documentation in Agile. There is documentation in natural. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: there's documentation in agile, but it's not comprehensive, but producing something that works, and you can replace the word software by
Orlando Sequera: whatever it is applicable to your industry. And it's still it is still the same, the same value producing something that works. It's more important than
Orlando Sequera: comprehensive documentation.
Orlando Sequera: The next one customer collaboration is more important than contract negotiation.
Orlando Sequera: and the last one which I personally consider the the
Orlando Sequera: pivotal
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: The most important aspect of the manifesto is being able to respond to change, that is, agility at its core. Agility at its core is being able to have that being able to respond to changes so
Orlando Sequera: being able to respond to changes is more important than following a plan, and this is where they drew a line in the same, compared to predictive in predictive is
Orlando Sequera: predictive, is all built around, for we build the plans, and we follow the plans.
Orlando Sequera: and that is what we do in predictive, but in agile, no being able to
Orlando Sequera: respond to changes. It's more important than following a plan. But there is planning in agile, too. Okay, that's another misconception.
Orlando Sequera: So.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: there's no documentation, or there's no planning and agile. There is
Orlando Sequera: some documentation, and there is some planning in agile, but it's more important
Orlando Sequera: to be able to respond to changes and for important to produce something that works. Okay, this is
Orlando Sequera: what a agile basically at the score. How it came to be
Orlando Sequera: fast forward 2022 years later. This is applicable to any industry. You can replace the worst. Software. This is using research on the
Orlando Sequera: in construction some areas of construction where they're trying to
Orlando Sequera: to use new materials. They use an agile approach. Okay, so it's applicably a marketing research on development manufacturing in some cases, even in construction.
Orlando Sequera: Of course, in software. Development they they they apply agile
Orlando Sequera: to a lot of agile in their in their
Orlando Sequera: different endeavors.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: And they came up with also as part of the foundation. They came up with a manifesto. Their highest priority was a has prior to the to satisfy the customer through continuous delivery of valuable software. That's why we work in iterations. We do it multiple times.
Orlando Sequera: The second one super important. We welcome changes even late in development. Imagine if you have to make a
Orlando Sequera: if you're following a predictive approach, the house is almost built.
Orlando Sequera: The roof is already in place. But then you get a change. Oh, we don't want to use. We don't want a tile roof. We want to to change that for metal. We want you to install a metal roof once. The roof is already in place.
Orlando Sequera: That is, that's going to be tough. So, but in agile
Orlando Sequera: you welcome changes at any time, even late in development.
Orlando Sequera: The goal is to help the customer with it, because competitive advantage
Orlando Sequera: it's about delivering something that works frequently, and they give you here the guidance for the duration of the iterations
Orlando Sequera: from a couple of weeks to a couple of months.
Orlando Sequera: Most organizations follow an iteration of
Orlando Sequera: the two-week duration.
Orlando Sequera: It's about collaboration
Orlando Sequera: stakeholders and the people doing the work should collaborate daily through the project so they're giving you a way of how that direction should happen.
Orlando Sequera: build projects that are motivated individuals. So it's about leadership, about motivation. Give them the give them the tools that they need, so so they can complete the work. And
Orlando Sequera: they all they pointed out that conveying from the most effective way of conveying information is face to face interaction. Of course it's not always
Orlando Sequera: possible, and they didn't have the tools that we have nowadays, but it's still true to this day. That is true true statement to this day.
Orlando Sequera: and that's why you see many in many organizations
Orlando Sequera: agile teams are co-located in the same physical location within 6 feet of each other. But
Orlando Sequera: you can be agile, even if you work remotely as well. So it's not a it's not a must, so that has evolved a little bit.
Orlando Sequera: The
Orlando Sequera: and also
Orlando Sequera: how do we measure Progress is about results Producing something that works is how we measure results.
Orlando Sequera: It's the primary measure of products producing something that works.
Orlando Sequera: This is about sustainable development. This is not about making people work 80 h a week.
Orlando Sequera: This has to be sustainable. You gotta keep a constant takes. It's not about making people work more
Orlando Sequera: a paying attention to details that enhances agility.
Orlando Sequera: continuous potential technical excellence. It's about simplicity
Orlando Sequera: that is maximizing the amount of work not done. You're not gonna be be able to build all the functionality in 2 weeks, right? So you have to prioritize, build the most important functionality at that time, and that's how you build an increments.
Orlando Sequera: Teams Agile teams are self organized. They make their own decisions internally. They're not told what to do we lead them? We
Orlando Sequera: support them. It's about
Orlando Sequera: being servant leaders is not commanding control. They're not told what to do. We let them. They're the experts doing the work, and that's they're the ones that are going to decide how to do the work. They need to understand they what not the how.
Orlando Sequera: and we have
Orlando Sequera: a a at the end of its iteration. We have intervals
Orlando Sequera: that
Orlando Sequera: is to make adjustments. Go over lessons, learn and make adjustments as needed. So that's one difference between agile and predictive. In predictive. We usually wait at the end of the project to have that retrospective and go over what? Well, what we're going to go over. Let's start, although we should
Orlando Sequera: compile and gather and collect and document. This will sort of through the entire life cycle if we're following a a predictive approach, but in agile we can apply this. Let's learn in real time
Orlando Sequera: what we learned in one iteration. We can apply it in the very next iteration.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: by the way, these are not silver bullets.
Orlando Sequera: They these are just tools that you have
Orlando Sequera: approaches that you have available to you. It's up to you to decide which
Orlando Sequera: is the best approach for your specific situation. They're not telling you you should use agile every every single time or use predictive. No.
Orlando Sequera: you have to be able to analyze the situation and decide which one's gonna be the best approach for your context, for your situation.
Orlando Sequera: agile means the iterations
Orlando Sequera: are going to be shorter. That's the main recommendation, and what you build. Your products are going to be evolving, based on stakeholder feedback, like your mobile app right.
Orlando Sequera: Think of one mobile app like Whatsapp for communication, how it has evolved over time. When they started version one was only targeting iphone users. But then they came up with a newer version that
Orlando Sequera: was also a a covering Android users, and over time it evolves
Orlando Sequera: they built in or in iterations, and
Orlando Sequera: being agile.
Orlando Sequera: it's probably more important. It's about being able to respond to changes, and it takes time. It's a it's building that agile mindset in some organizations. Some of them are early
Orlando Sequera: in that journey. The level of material is low. It's about changing that mindset. It's a constant effort they need to understand that is not just having the ceremonies and following the this from ceremonies, for example, that's gonna make us agile. No, it's a whole mindset that it has to to change.
Orlando Sequera: We need to understand the practices. It's about the values, the mindset and the behavior. And it takes time. This is not something that is gonna happen overnight. Many agile transformations change because some organizations tend to think that just by following the edge of ceremonies that means that we are agile, and that's not the case. It's a whole mindset
Orlando Sequera: evolution that has to happen
Orlando Sequera: tailoring to project a context. That is what I've been mentioning before. Every project is unique. You need to have the flexibility to figure out which one of these approaches is going to be your best PET, to produce your desire, the desire outcome.
Orlando Sequera: You have the flexibility to do that, and by that I mean tailoring the different
Orlando Sequera: a approaches
Orlando Sequera: you have to. It's about applying your your your knowledge. The delivery that is needed and defining the most
Orlando Sequera: appropriate development approach in some cases is going to be predictive of some cases going to be agile on some cases going to be a combination of the 2 what we call hybrid.
Orlando Sequera: and you have to tailor. This processes determine which one is going to be your best approach. Pay attention to the scope
Orlando Sequera: of your project for the Pmp. Exam. The first element that you have to look at is the scope, and they're going to give you some hints. The team is well, they they know really well the scope they have worked in similar projects in the past. Those are hints. Those are clues. They're gonna help you. Oh, this is
Orlando Sequera: May in this. They're very familiar with the scope. They know they have done it multiple times, then on a a traditional approach or predictive is going to be better. Or this is something that is going to be changing, evolving, or very complex. That's a him fragile. Pay attention to that. But always keep in mind that
Orlando Sequera: you can tailor those practices and methods.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: A. I see some comments in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: Who gives the feedback when
Orlando Sequera: okay, all right.
Orlando Sequera: Had your products of racing.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, it's a well traditional project can be also like like that.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: Just a quick overview of what we cover foundation project management concepts. We went over that. We know the definitions of Project
Orlando Sequera: Portfolio program
Orlando Sequera: project management. We went over project management principles. Remember, you want to do a deeper dive.
Orlando Sequera: Check your printbook. Seventh.
Orlando Sequera: The agile mindset. We went over Agile where it started. And we also more importantly understand now that we can mix a match, we can tailor based on what we are facing. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: so it's important to keep in mind. Then the next topic is about strategic alignment we have
Orlando Sequera: for strategic alignment.
Orlando Sequera: This is something that
Orlando Sequera: the the breakdown the Pmi has
Orlando Sequera: for the skills.
Orlando Sequera: and once you get your Pmp certification you have to get what is called professional development units. And but this is a tenant triangle that Pmi has, and your professional development units are going to be a
Orlando Sequera: actually align with this 3 areas. It's about the ways of working, learning
Orlando Sequera: and mastering a diverse and creative ways
Orlando Sequera: to get the job done. That is
Orlando Sequera: the
Orlando Sequera: core aspect of being a project manager. It's also learning how to a influence others and building relationships. That's what we call power skills. And then business acumen, defective decision making, and how products are like with a big picture. So this is the representation of the talent triangle, and
Orlando Sequera: but the Pmi has in place, and it's gonna be tied up to. When you get your certification you need to collect 60 P. To use
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: in a 3 year cycle. That is the renewing cycle for the Pmp.
Orlando Sequera: A. Sir.
Orlando Sequera: So you have to gather 60 P. To use
Orlando Sequera: that are gonna be tied up to this Pmi tenant triangle.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: we also have
Orlando Sequera: strategic alignment and business management skills.
Orlando Sequera: It's important for us as project managers to understand our organizational strategic plan.
Orlando Sequera: We need to understand how
Orlando Sequera: our project goals are aligned with the organizational goals. As I was saying, before, we have the organizational goal of
Orlando Sequera: growing in the European market. We need to understand how our pretty goals are going to provide the support for that, and we need to have access to that high level overview of the organization. Some of you might be wondering how can we do that?
Orlando Sequera: We build? We need to build that relationship with our project Sponsor, for example, someone that has that knowledge. We need to work with our key stakeholders to understand the high level overview of the organization, because that's gonna help us to be successful. Our team members are not going to have that. We are the link between that
Orlando Sequera: high level overview of the organization and the project team.
Orlando Sequera: A. So that is, this bullet points that you see here. That's part of your job as a project manager.
Orlando Sequera: So you can understand essential business aspects of your project.
Orlando Sequera: You're able to work with the experts that are doing the work, so you can come up with a with the right project delivery strategy. And then, more importantly, to be able to implement this strategy, to
Orlando Sequera: maximize the business value of your project. That is crucial.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: then. This is what I was mentioned, probably the the graphic representation of that. We have a vision and a mission of the organization, and then the organization is going to have strategic
Orlando Sequera: a and strategy and objectives, and as this support an organization, we have to provide a way for those organizational strategies, goals and objectives to come to fruition. And we do that through
Orlando Sequera: project management with the different levels. We have portfolio management program, management and
Orlando Sequera: project management.
Orlando Sequera: That's how we can provide the support for those individual E. A strategy and objectives that the organization has in place to come to fruition.
Orlando Sequera: That's why organizations love to use project mansion, because it provides the foundation for that. So in at the bottom of the pyramid we have worth the resources.
Orlando Sequera: So that's how we're.
Orlando Sequera: That's why organizations love using project management.
Orlando Sequera: And now
Orlando Sequera: we're going to be talking about the influences
Orlando Sequera: organization inferences. And here we're going to see some topics that some of you were mentioning before
Orlando Sequera: we have
Orlando Sequera: what we call enterprise, environmental factors.
Orlando Sequera: anything that is outside of the control of the project team
Orlando Sequera: that is going to have an impact on the project. That's what we call a an enterprise programming section factor. They can be internal or they can be external
Orlando Sequera: e when it comes to external. Think about marketplace conditions, or think about economic situation, of think about a global supply chain. It challenges. Those are external enterprise and rural
Orlando Sequera: and factors, external enterprise, environmental factors. But they could also be internal.
Orlando Sequera: like the organizational culture. For example, anything internally that is also gonna have an impact on your project.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Yeah.
Orlando Sequera: Organization or process assets. And these 2 are going to be your new, your 2 new best friends.
Orlando Sequera: Eef and Opa.
Orlando Sequera: The key word so
Orlando Sequera: is is documentation. Is any policy, any template, any communication, any procedure, any historical information about other projects? That's what we call
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: in organizational process assets, okay.
Orlando Sequera: policies, documentations, guidelines, templates, historical information. Those are opa keyword documentation, any price, environmental factors, any factor outside of the control the for the team that is going to have an impact.
Orlando Sequera: Your project.
Orlando Sequera: It is important for us to understand the business environment.
Orlando Sequera: Then this is where those enterprise, environmental factors, the external ones, come into play. We do not have any control over them.
Orlando Sequera: but they're gonna have an impact on your project, and we can use multiple ways to classify them. Pester is one of them.
Orlando Sequera: and it's basically
Orlando Sequera: categories.
Orlando Sequera: The
Orlando Sequera: classified them by political economics, social, the legal, environmental, or take up. It's another way to classify this external enterprise.
Orlando Sequera: environmental factors.
Orlando Sequera: or vuka volatility, uncertainty, complexity, and ambiguity. By the way, there are many offers that are saying right now that we live in a vuka world which is about volatility, uncertainty, complexity, and ambiguity. And
Orlando Sequera: if you want an example for that, go look at the global pandemic.
Orlando Sequera: But we also got to look at
Orlando Sequera: a comparative advantage. Analysis, some feasibility studies that are done prior to projects. Organizations look at, they perform multiple sort analysis. We'll go over over this in a little bit more detail when we talk about risk.
Orlando Sequera: So analysis a
Orlando Sequera: analyzing assumptions they have, and we're going to go over that as well historical information, and then again risk alignment with the organization strategy. So we'll do a deeper dive about using this classification
Orlando Sequera: prompts or frameworks that can help us to classify this enterprise environmental factors.
Orlando Sequera: I see a question of the chat. Did anyone capture a definition of an Opier? Any policy, any template keyword is documentation.
Orlando Sequera: based documentation, any policy, any template, any procedure, any historical information about a project that is an opa
Orlando Sequera: organization process asset.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: Another question to chat like an isop. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: internal environmental factors
Orlando Sequera: a factors are going to. They are internal to the organization that have an impact
Orlando Sequera: in. They're gonna have an impact on the project.
Orlando Sequera: Big example is going to be organizational culture
Orlando Sequera: or what we know as
Orlando Sequera: politics, right? That is.
Orlando Sequera: we need to know that we need the organization
Orlando Sequera: that's gonna have an impact on a project that's gonna help us to understand how decisions are being made.
Orlando Sequera: That is crucial for us to be successful.
Orlando Sequera: And again.
Orlando Sequera: this is probably going to be helpful
Orlando Sequera: any when it comes to opa's, organization process assets and enterprise environmental factors. We have processes, policies, and procedures, templates that those are opa like, or charts.
Orlando Sequera: rules for for for procurement, higher and onboarding processes
Orlando Sequera: a or knowledge. Faces like libraries, less repositories. Those are also examples of opa.
Orlando Sequera: Yes, some examples. As I mentioned before.
Orlando Sequera: Internal organizational culture.
Orlando Sequera: distribution of facilities, resource, capabilities, external marketplace conditions.
Orlando Sequera: a lost regulations and standards applicable to your industry
Orlando Sequera: operation operating conditions, and then the social cultural influences can take that into account, especially if you're working at a global scale.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: So, for example, for the shop lifestyle center. What
Orlando Sequera: the first one
Orlando Sequera: economic demand for a new shopping area is that? An Ef or an opa?
Orlando Sequera: What do you think
Orlando Sequera: that's an a year, right? What about the second one?
Orlando Sequera: Be Historical society building regulations?
Orlando Sequera: That is an opa, and we're gonna do the next One local neighborhood demand for a better town center. Is that an eef, or is that an opa?
Orlando Sequera: That's an opa? Right? All right. So feel free to we're gonna do it for the sake of time, just 3. But you can a follow and and basically
Orlando Sequera: practice that alone. But that's so. You can see an example.
Orlando Sequera: No see local neighborhood. They map for a bed in town center. Do you have any influence over that? That's the question that you have to ask? Do you have an influence on the the local neighborhood demand for where it town center. No.
Orlando Sequera: so that makes it. An ef
Orlando Sequera: local neighborhood demand is not a policy.
Orlando Sequera: all right. So we covered
Orlando Sequera: strategic alignment and business document, and we also went over some of the guidance for effective business decision making process. We explore some organizational influences, some projects. And we went over how projects aligned with broader organizations, strategy and global trends.
Orlando Sequera: Now
Orlando Sequera: I would like to go over. Actually.
Orlando Sequera: we have time to go over the other 3. What about
Orlando Sequera: letter D
Orlando Sequera: we have? Is that
is that an opa? Or is that an ef
Orlando Sequera: archive of past large infrastructure projects. That is an opa.
Orlando Sequera: That's something
Orlando Sequera: that we documented from previous projects.
Orlando Sequera: What about the approved vendor and contractors list? Is that an opa, or an ef
Orlando Sequera: that's an opa.
Orlando Sequera: what about the tenant selection process?
Orlando Sequera: Is that an opa or an Ef
Orlando Sequera: payment selection process.
Orlando Sequera: it's an opa
Orlando Sequera: to an opa right we have that guidel. That's the process that we have to follow. I'm gonna add another letter. What about of? Thank you. Yes, we we pass the chat to avoid conflict. So it
Orlando Sequera: if we had
Orlando Sequera: another global supply chain challenges. Is that an opa, or an if
Orlando Sequera: that will be an Eef, the key aspect is.
Orlando Sequera: if
Orlando Sequera: it's about control, Can the team
Orlando Sequera: can the team
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: control? That factor? The answer is, no chances are that it's going to be an actual, a.
Orlando Sequera: An Ef: okay, so pay attention to that, do. These are factors that we can, that that we have to to control. But, as we said before, any
Orlando Sequera: any regulation. We we don't have any control over that. So if it's something that we
Orlando Sequera: that we have internal for the organization
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: that we have for human rules that we have to follow higher than on boarding
Orlando Sequera: templates, documentation, keyword being documentation. That is what we have to follow. A. For an opa. If it's a factor in the project, whether it is internal or external. That's an Eef: okay. So
Orlando Sequera: please
Orlando Sequera: follow the chat for the questions that i'm asking not the Q. And a. And
Orlando Sequera: I'm. Going to go over some questions in the Q. A. The main there's a question in the Q. A. Main difference between OP and ef. In one word, is documentation.
Orlando Sequera: opas, or documentation. A Eefs are factors that affect your project, whether they're internal or external. That is the difference between the 2.
Orlando Sequera: Can we get a summary?
You
Orlando Sequera: The answers to slide 65.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: What is an example of an opa They not organization knowledge. Face
Orlando Sequera: an example of an opa, the quality quality policy of your organization. That is an example of an opa.
Orlando Sequera: From what seat?
Orlando Sequera: A. Nope.
Orlando Sequera: I no PA
Umhm.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: you see, an opa or an ef
Orlando Sequera: right, do we have any control over the local neighborhood? Demand?
Orlando Sequera: Nope, that's an ef
Orlando Sequera: put up.
Orlando Sequera: So if it's documented
Orlando Sequera: key word documentation.
Orlando Sequera: Yeah. Historical Society Building Regulations. Do you have any control over
Orlando Sequera: building regulations
Orlando Sequera: and let's go back to the definition
Orlando Sequera: That's an external ef lost regulations and standards
Orlando Sequera: sunny if it is an if
Orlando Sequera: correct
Orlando Sequera: Yeah, my apologies, probably I got it. I got it. I got it wrong.
Orlando Sequera: If let's go over one more time.
Orlando Sequera: Tenant selection process
Orlando Sequera: Is that? An i'm gonna ask you, is that an opa or an ef
Orlando Sequera: any procedures, any policies, any guidelines that we have to follow.
Orlando Sequera: It's an opa.
Orlando Sequera: That's an opa correct.
Orlando Sequera: So make sure that you
Orlando Sequera: learn that for the exam that is critical.
Orlando Sequera: There's a common in the chat. It can be changed internally. It should be a fluid concept, not really. There are 2 different things. There are 2 different things.
Orlando Sequera: factors that could impact your project, which you don't have any control over.
Orlando Sequera: But they still have an impact on their project. Those are Yes, they're totally different from opa's.
Orlando Sequera: So. No, they should not be. They're 2 different things.
Orlando Sequera: you say tenant selection. But what if it has nothing to do with our project? But it has to do with your project. Right?
Orlando Sequera: So that's the first I that's the first validation that you have to do.
Orlando Sequera: We are building. Remember what we're trying to build a lifestyle center.
Orlando Sequera: Right? So
Orlando Sequera: they are going to be
Orlando Sequera: related to our project. That's what you have to validate. And, by the way, thank you for that question, because that is the first
Orlando Sequera: validation process he has.
Orlando Sequera: If it doesn't have anything to do with the project, then we we, we we don't have to review those opa's right. We have to review what's related to our project.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: wouldn't guidance be documentation to Yes, in some cases hands. The reason I said. The key word associated with opa is documentation
Orlando Sequera: trying to simplify absolutely opa. Think about documentation.
Orlando Sequera: policies, templates.
Orlando Sequera: guidelines, anything that is applicable to your product. So part of your job as a Pm. Is to. And and, by the way, it's not that you have to do these on
Orlando Sequera: you work with the team members. They have work, work with your team members, work with your key stakeholders. They can help you. Okay, we're working on a project that has to do with the man we are revamping the or automating the manufacturing shop, for
Orlando Sequera: they are going to be regulations. They are going to have an impact. So they're going to have. There are going to be procedures that we have to follow. We they're going to help you with that. You don't have to know that on your own. It's not. But do not assume that for the exam, either that you have to have all the answers. That's why we're working with the project team. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: they're going to help you. Your team members are going to help you.
Orlando Sequera: We can break down enterprise, environment environmental factors, as we see here into internal and external. So that is, that is also
Orlando Sequera: important.
Orlando Sequera: That's a project. Always need to have a Pm. For the Pmp. Exam: Yes.
Orlando Sequera: and I would say most cases. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: opa something that we make up and document
Orlando Sequera: from past experience to get us in future. Not necessarily just that. That would be a part, but it could be a quality policy for the organization. It's not necessarily from previous project. It's applicable those that's the quality policy that the organization has in place, so it's a little bit broader.
Orlando Sequera: It has a little bit broader application than just that's one part what you mentioned, Jeffrey. That's one part of it, but it can be broader, too. So we have different
Orlando Sequera: types of opa, these processes, policies, and pursuit. That will be one example. But we have policies that are applicable like quality. The quality policy for your organization that's broader than just that. It's not something that we came up with in the previous projects. Necessarily
Orlando Sequera: there's a coming in the chat. If we're just working on building the on on the building. Selecting the tenants will be an opa. We won't. Have both.
Orlando Sequera: We don't have power over that.
Orlando Sequera: But there's going to be a process in place for that.
Orlando Sequera: That's what makes it a
Orlando Sequera: that's what makes it an actual opa
Orlando Sequera: depends on the project.
Orlando Sequera: Culture is not is not documentation. Hence the reason culture is an Ef
Orlando Sequera: organizational culture on the F, An organizational charts. Okay, organizational charts. Okay, I see the confusion here. Thank you for that question. Organizational chart is simply that orchard that shows who the CEO. The organization is who the different directors of the different departments are.
Orlando Sequera: and the different senior managers and the different functional managers. That's what a north chart is. That's it.
Orlando Sequera: Organizational culture is
Orlando Sequera: way much more complex. It depends on the industry.
Orlando Sequera: It depends on the
Orlando Sequera: in the industry of the organization. For example, I work for a hospital network that was that is owned by the Seventh Day Adventist Church.
Orlando Sequera: Their organizational culture was very religious.
Orlando Sequera: Hey?
Orlando Sequera: I have also worked for
Orlando Sequera: start up organizations that are more aligned with what you typically see Silicon Valley that are is very relaxed. That's what we mean by organization of culture. They it's a group of
Orlando Sequera: values and believes. And if that the organization has in place that's totally different from an orchard, that's the difference between the 2
Orlando Sequera: or opas or processes, policies and procedures correct.
Orlando Sequera: Eef. Stands for enterprise of my own factor. Correct?
Orlando Sequera: Oh, i'm sorry i'll. I'll read the question. I
Orlando Sequera: please make sure that you change. But you gotta help me out
Orlando Sequera: my apologies. I've been reading the questions in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: I should read the questions out loud, but change the blue box to everyone, so everyone can see your question, so help me out as well.
Orlando Sequera: Wouldn't the tenant selection access to the it could exist before
Orlando Sequera: policies like equal opportunity, access and discrimination. External inference to They are externally friends, too, but they are part of your organization to do. Did you have to follow them? So that makes it an opa.
Orlando Sequera: Are we saying here that opa is an, if need to be identified before it start? Project you should. Yes.
okay.
Orlando Sequera: Are we saying here that opa's on the Ef. Will need to be identified for the sorry project. Again the answer is, Yes.
Orlando Sequera: not lost. Regulations and standards documented they are. But you don't have any control over that. At least it's in. That's an external factor that has an impact
Orlando Sequera: on your project. You have to follow them.
Orlando Sequera: That that's it. But you have to know which ones are applicable.
Orlando Sequera: You.
Orlando Sequera: But there can be a place where they both meet. Yeah, when you document them.
Orlando Sequera: But they're different different concepts. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: feather loss. Ef: yes, we're going to set your policies related to the slows or ops. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: how's resource capability? And ef do you have any control over resource capabilities? No.
Orlando Sequera: if you have to work with what you have, that's
Orlando Sequera: basically
Orlando Sequera: the fact. The resources that you have
Orlando Sequera: procurement plan management will, for under Opa. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: how many questions are we gonna have on this? No. The remember is about application. These are key
Orlando Sequera: we're working on the foundation. The questions are not gonna be. You need. We need to understand them
Orlando Sequera: before, and we're getting ready to our
Orlando Sequera: launch break. So I just wanna make sure this is important. This is the foundation. Please don't get a hurt or yourselves. This is the foundational aspect. So when we start covering the different topics. This is gonna help us. We need to have that foundation, so we can then understand
Orlando Sequera: it the rest of the terminology. But this is gonna be coming up. This is important for you to understand, for the exam. Remember that the questions are scenario based. They are not
Orlando Sequera: going to be
Orlando Sequera: about the definition. They're going to be. The Exam. Is
Orlando Sequera: a built in a way that is going to ask you about
Orlando Sequera: scenarios, not about definitions. Okay. But you need to know the definition. So you can answer correctly.
Orlando Sequera: And ef can change an opa in some cases, Yes, yeah, new law can change internal procedures. So yes.
Orlando Sequera: yeah, I think there's a little bit of overthinking on this anything that you can control, that you cannot control, but still has an impact on the project. That's what we call an Ef. It can be internal.
Orlando Sequera: like
Orlando Sequera: the culture of your organization. We also know as politics.
Orlando Sequera: or it can be external, like marketplace conditions, so many people. We work in software development and we we are locating an area in which
Orlando Sequera: they they.
Orlando Sequera: They mark there not many
Orlando Sequera: people available that are software developers. For example, we don't have any control over that yet. It's gonna have an impact
Orlando Sequera: on your project. So
Orlando Sequera: that's how we have to or any law
Orlando Sequera: or any regulation that is applicable to what we do. We we don't have any control over that it
Orlando Sequera: You Lots of regulations are coming coming up all the time, so put they have an impact
Orlando Sequera: on
Orlando Sequera: our project. So that's how you you have to look at it. But any policy, any template, any guideline that is applicable to your project.
Orlando Sequera: That is some keyword documentation
Orlando Sequera: that is going to be
Orlando Sequera: an actual.
Orlando Sequera: the actual opa organization process asset.
Orlando Sequera: Yes, do not overthink it. We we just, I just want to make sure this foundation is there to overthink it.
Orlando Sequera: They are. Chances are that this is going to be part of the information on this scenario questions. But I see a question about Can Can you?
Orlando Sequera: Can you give an example of scenario given in the test? You have it in front of you, already desperate. Go to test prep, and you're going to see how the questions are asked
Orlando Sequera: in a much more.
Orlando Sequera: in a much more better way. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: All right. So we are going to
Orlando Sequera: work.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to take our break.
Orlando Sequera: We're gonna take an hour break. Please remember, do not log off right now. When we come back from break we're gonna cover. We're gonna continue with the Co. Covering the content. Please do not log off. Stay locked in. Please stay logged in. Do not log off. We're gonna be playing important videos. Let it run in the background.
Orlando Sequera: They contain important information about some topics that we have mentioned before. I know it's a lot of information to digest
Orlando Sequera: It's going to get better. Don't be overwhelmed to let it overwhelm you.
Orlando Sequera: Do you need to digest this 1 Byte at a time?
Orlando Sequera: But please stay locked in during the break. We're going to be back in an hour and
Orlando Sequera: enjoy your break, and we'll come back for
Orlando Sequera: ours. A part 2 of our session, number one. All right.
Orlando Sequera: so thank you very much. Everyone we will be back in an hour.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to continue
Orlando Sequera: with our
Orlando Sequera: session or part 2 of session. One
Orlando Sequera: and one thing that I would like to highlight. There's still some questions about
Orlando Sequera: the resources, and I would like to
Orlando Sequera: go over that
Orlando Sequera: about the attendance tracker. What do I do with it? Lease
Orlando Sequera: download the file and read the instructions. They're very
Orlando Sequera: they. They're specified for you in their in the documents. So all you need to do is
Orlando Sequera: you need to download the attendance tracker
Orlando Sequera: read the instructions. It's going to tell you how to fill it out.
Orlando Sequera: M.
Orlando Sequera: It went to submit it. All of that is answer in those instructions. That's why your
Orlando Sequera: The the team took the time to make sure that the structures were clear and specific to what needs to happen with the attendance tracker. Okay, if you're a perceived user, how do I get the attendance tracker? If you're a procedure, user please go
Orlando Sequera: to the resources t
Orlando Sequera: click on the Tab. It's gonna have a drop down, and that's gonna one of the resources that you have is the attendance tracker. You can download it and copy local version of the document in your computer. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: then.
Orlando Sequera: A: If you're not at per super, user you can go to Github and get it
Orlando Sequera: from Github.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, there's a link that has been.
Orlando Sequera: Copy it multiple times. I'm gonna do it one more time. It's in the chat. I just put it in the chat, please. If you're a non per CPU, user go to Github and all the resources are there to. So to please follow the guidelines. Okay, things structures are in the attendance tracker, and all the resources are in
Orlando Sequera: a in Github. And if you're a perceived user you need to go to persecute and then
Orlando Sequera: go to resources. Click on that tab and the entire list of resources. Is there
Orlando Sequera: a all the resources that you have to
Orlando Sequera: to that you need for
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: Or the class. And, by the way.
Orlando Sequera: Per CPU users, you can also get it from Github right? They say that Percip is giving you trouble. You can also go to Github and download
Orlando Sequera: the zip file.
Orlando Sequera: Karl just put the the information of the link. You can go there if precipit. For some reason it's not working for you. So please click on on code and then download the zip file so you can get all your resources from Github. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Please read the document, read the instructions, and that's going to tell you what to do with attendance tracker in this specific case.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: I see Again, if you're having some issues with your audio or your
Orlando Sequera: video. The main recommendation will be to John to join in using
Orlando Sequera: Zoom. If you're having problems with your audio. Maybe you can rejoin the session. That might help.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: let's go ahead and continue with
Orlando Sequera: the
Orlando Sequera: content. So now
Orlando Sequera: stop it and remember
Orlando Sequera: that we mentioned. And, by the way, my apologies.
Orlando Sequera: we are going to.
Orlando Sequera: We're gonna be agile. We're gonna make sure that we are a following approach. That that seems to work the most, even though we started with some guidelines at the beginning of the class. I see that
Orlando Sequera: the chat has been working better for content related questions, and most of you have been following that approach. So let's use the chat for content. Related questions while we are covering. Okay, while we are covering the topics.
Orlando Sequera: And remember that if you have any technical issues, use the Q. A. For that. Use the Q. A. For technical issues.
Orlando Sequera: If you still have questions about resources. Please feel free to use the Q. A. For that, not the chat. Let's keep the chat under control. If you get out of control. We're going to pass it. But let's keep it under control.
Orlando Sequera: Ask the questions in the right places.
Orlando Sequera: Technical issues, Use the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: A. Resource. Questions use the Q. And a. Even though we have been answering that multiple times. So please
Orlando Sequera: use the Q. A. For that. Okay. And
Orlando Sequera: the chat we can follow along the class. But for
Orlando Sequera: content, related questions mainly.
Orlando Sequera: Are we going to address every single question? It's impossible, but i'm going to do my best to, and i'm also going to make sure that I read out loud the questions
Orlando Sequera: depending on where, whether, if i'm reading from the chat, or from the Q. A. I'll make sure that I do a better job in breathing the question. But you need to help me to please make sure that in the chat, change your blue box to everyone. So whenever you type a question in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: come in. Everyone can see it. Okay, and that way i'll make sure i'll do my best to read out loud the questions before answering the questions. All right.
Orlando Sequera: all right. So
Orlando Sequera: let's continue with it with the content. We are now going to.
Orlando Sequera: We're now going to talk about project benefits and value. Remember that we mentioned before. This is an important aspect. The project success it's about benefits. It's about value. So. But we had to start by defining
Orlando Sequera: what value is
Orlando Sequera: value is about benefits
Orlando Sequera: That's the main reason why organizations are conducting projects.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, and it's about benefits. They want to
Orlando Sequera: produce the benefits to the organ, but it
Orlando Sequera: he's totally to the organization. It could be to the community where the organization is so this benefit can be applied to multiple aspects not necessary, and it's not necessarily monetary benefit. Right? That's one type of tangible benefits. But you could also have some intangible benefits, like
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: helping the community. That's more of an intangible benefit. Corporate social responsibility, for example, that the organization can that the community where the organization lives
Orlando Sequera: it can benefit from that particular project.
Orlando Sequera: market recognition, etc. So all the benefits are not necessarily tangible. Some of them can be in tangible. But but they're still a part. They still add value to the organization. They're still part of those benefits, and this is gonna be identified by
Orlando Sequera: A by the project
Orlando Sequera: in
Orlando Sequera: benefits. Realization is when, though when, though those benefits that we.
Orlando Sequera: a originally said as a target with our particular project are actually come to fruition. That's when a that's what we mean by benefits of realization.
Orlando Sequera: So when those benefits come to to fruition when they become.
Orlando Sequera: when would they become reality? That's when we can say that
Orlando Sequera: we have been able to achieve our business value. But value is.
Orlando Sequera: and and we also get a keeping to account. It's going to be defined by the actual a organization by your stakeholders value. They're. They're the ones that define a. V. What is of value to them. So so it's not the team. It's not the Pm.
Orlando Sequera: It's actually the stakeholders. They we need to keep that into account.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: so. But the ultimate goal of any project is to add value to a business. We gotta remember that, and that is tied up to the actual.
Orlando Sequera: A definition of success that we're using for projects.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: I
Orlando Sequera: We are going to.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to the to on past the chat. But remember what we said. Please help me with that. We're going to unpause the chat with the chat is for content. Related questions.
Orlando Sequera: technical issues, Qa: research questions, Qa: or if I am not
Orlando Sequera: being able to. If I' not be able to see your questions in the chat, then feel free to use the Q. A. For Content related questions to make sure that I answer them. Okay. So let's do that With that set we are going to on past
Orlando Sequera: the chat.
Orlando Sequera: Alright.
Orlando Sequera: What is an there's a question in the chat. What is an example of stakeholders in your current role as a Pm. We're gonna talk about stakeholders by definition, anybody that
Orlando Sequera: can be impacted by the project is a stakeholder, but we're going to talk about that. That's a topic in the class we're going to talk about that
Orlando Sequera: we are going to continue with the content. So
Orlando Sequera: if we, if you need to refer to previous topics, I think we cover in detail, there's a question of opa, and ef we went over that
Orlando Sequera: in detail, so please review the recording if you need to, or read the the content again. But I think we went over that we highlighted multiple definitions.
Orlando Sequera: continuing with the content
Orlando Sequera: we are.
Orlando Sequera: we have to take a look at
Orlando Sequera: business value.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: We need to work with our stakeholders. As I mentioned before, value is defined by our stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: We have to work and rely with our experts with the people that are doing the work your subject matter experts
Orlando Sequera: to to leverage their expert knowledge, and then.
Orlando Sequera: by doing that, we can then examine, evaluate, and confirm, to be able to determine exactly what is or can be of value.
Orlando Sequera: There is a question in the chat. Oh, okay.
Orlando Sequera: there's a question in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: Value is only one. You have to. It's only quantified. You have to be able to measure it, but some of it is going to be in tangible, but somehow you have to be able to measure it. That's why we say that value is planifiable.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right, please.
Orlando Sequera: A
Orlando Sequera: would just
Orlando Sequera: an update. Be consider a creation without new value. You have to define this with your in some cases. Yes, but it comes from your a, your stakeholders right. This, whatever they consider, that is a value. That definition is gonna come from them. So we have to work with our experts.
Orlando Sequera: W: we are with the people that are doing the work. Our team members to a really understand, to make sure that we're all on the same page. But that definition of value, what is the value comes
Orlando Sequera: from the stakeholders
Orlando Sequera: we have, we can to help us with that. With that definition
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: we might look at shareholder value business growth if it's a private business, or if it's a a probably trade in in the stock market, a look at the shareholder value we can look at customer value.
Orlando Sequera: It could also be employee, knowledge or channel or business partner value. But this is going to
Orlando Sequera: come from our stakeholders. Okay, we're not the ones they're the ones that define what is the business value, and we as a team, and by that I mean the product team. We need to be on the same page.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
all right.
Review in the chat for any questions.
Orlando Sequera: If you can quantify valuable, that's why it's tied up. You have to be able to measure it. That's why you need to be able to quantify.
Orlando Sequera: But one thing that I want to highlight is not all return of investment. That's also that's
Orlando Sequera: financial.
Orlando Sequera: That's the financial metric but value is not always as we as we just mentioned, it's not always tangible. Okay, it can be intangible. It can be helping the community. It can be
Orlando Sequera: a a brand recognition so tangible it can be tangible, or it can be intangible.
Orlando Sequera: It's the business value, part of the scope. Nope. It is. That's another question in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: and please change your blue blocks to everyone, so everyone can see your question
Orlando Sequera: If there there's a question in the chat, it's the business value. Part of the scope. Nope. The scope is the work that we have to complete. We're going to talk about that. This is about the genesis of the project that justified, Why are we undertake? Why is the organization willing to invest time and money and resources in a particular project? They're looking for value, and it's way before scope that happens later. So this is at the Genesis stage
Orlando Sequera: off the project
Orlando Sequera: a stakeholder.
Orlando Sequera: Well, okay, please make sure that with the definitions. I know that some of you are trying to help. But please
Orlando Sequera: A,
Orlando Sequera: we're going to address the questions. Okay, and we gotta. We gotta be careful with some some definitions.
Orlando Sequera: We're gonna make sure that we provide the right information. A stakeholder, by definition, is anyone that can be impacted by the project or that could impact the project. That's a very broad definition. We're gonna go over that in detail when we talk about stakeholders. That's an area of project management that we're gonna go over that over over late.
Orlando Sequera: Another question in the chat. Can employees need help with understanding who stakeholders are? Yes, you need to define who your stakeholders are. That's one of the first
Orlando Sequera: activities that you have to complete as a project manager. You need to understand who your stakeholders are so in this case wouldn't be. The employees will be you as a project manager.
Orlando Sequera: My apologies let me go back.
Orlando Sequera: I'm going to
Orlando Sequera: through some of our questions.
Orlando Sequera: Would that be the project, Charter? It could be there. Yes, that's in the brochure.
Orlando Sequera: There's a question in the chat. Will that be in? The
Orlando Sequera: is
Orlando Sequera: one of the aspects that we have to understand to the bell of the project Charter
Orlando Sequera: with a Brian, a reputation kind of some tangible value. That's another question in the chat. Absolutely. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: all right. So let's try to avoid having separate classes. Let's try to stick to one class and try to follow. We'll address the questions a in a timely manner, I promise you that. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So, please, i'm gonna i'm gonna post the chat
Orlando Sequera: so we can.
Orlando Sequera: So we can continue
Orlando Sequera: with with the class.
Orlando Sequera: all right
Orlando Sequera: examples or types of business values that we have.
Orlando Sequera: And this is what I was mentioning. It's not always financial gain that return of investment, that profit.
Orlando Sequera: I'm not gonna say that most organizations are not looking for financial gain absolutely depending on the industry. What they what
Orlando Sequera: the reasoning for them to be in business. Yes, in many cases that is the case. But it could also be about attracting new customers
Orlando Sequera: social benefit. What I what I mentioned before. Maybe the project is about improving.
Orlando Sequera: Your organization is trying to come up with a.
Orlando Sequera: With a new way to clean
Orlando Sequera: a to
Orlando Sequera: system. I'm trying to think about something for a minute. Okay. Imagine plastic recollection in by, in in the nearby beaches or or ocean.
Orlando Sequera: right? So how we we're coming up with a better way. Our
Orlando Sequera: Our our organization wants to provide a
Orlando Sequera: the people that live in this community in Florida with a better way to clean up their beaches and and to collect plastic
Orlando Sequera: and garbage. Right so that social benefit you can. Are they going to be making a financial gain out of that. Not necessarily. But it is gonna have a positive impact in that community. So that's a social, an example of social benefit. But it could also be being first to market
Orlando Sequera: when you're trying to come up with with a new service, a new, a type of app
Orlando Sequera: to the mark. You want to be first to market with that idea before anyone else it comes out to with something similar, so that could be that's also basis value. But again, this is going to be defined by the business. This is going to be defined by the organization, or it could be an improvement
Orlando Sequera: to a technological process that is in place. That's also basis, value, or
Orlando Sequera: in some cases it will be a way for us
Orlando Sequera: 2.
Orlando Sequera: Make sure that we're compliant with changes to existing regulation or loss.
Orlando Sequera: or
Orlando Sequera: changes to standards that are applicable to our industry. That's compliance. That's what we mean by regularization. So
Orlando Sequera: the point here being that is not of business value is not always about financial gain. That's the main point that we're trying to make here. Okay. And this is defined by the organization. This is defined by your stakeholders. It's not defined by the team. It's not defined by
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: By new cost, by by by by
Orlando Sequera: view. The project manager by the team. It's not defined by your.
Orlando Sequera: It's going to be defined by the stakeholders and by your
Orlando Sequera: by the business. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: I see some questions in.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: guys. Try to let let let let's. Let's keep a positive added to towards the class. Remember, we have thousands of you. We're trying to do the best. I let's try to keep a positive environment, a positive approach for the class. We're gonna get to your questions when we, when
Orlando Sequera: whenever possible, remember it's gonna be impossible to answer every single question. I see a question here. What is a channel? Okay, Imagine a a major organization that they live that produces a
Orlando Sequera: that that makes a phones smartphones, and then they have their distribution a organis they have. They work with other distribution companies to distribute their projects their their products right? That will be an example of a channel. So it's not. If I am not
Orlando Sequera: paying attention to a specific topic is because it's not really that relevant to the content. Okay, but a chat, a distribution channel, the distribution partner. I am sure that you have been able to to see multiple examples of that. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: All right, Remember the questions I
Orlando Sequera: and let's try to keep the questions related to
Orlando Sequera: the actual content that we are covering
Orlando Sequera: all right
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: understanding the work that we have to do.
Orlando Sequera: and then, understanding how do we have to allocate organizational resources for our projects? We we need to understand the type of work that we're going to be doing.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: this
Orlando Sequera: is about understanding those strategic goals of the organization. That's why it is so important that as project managers, we need to have visibility to those organizational goals, to those organizational strategies that the organization has in place.
Orlando Sequera: so we can then understand the link between our projects
Orlando Sequera: and those organizational goals. Our team members usually do not have
Orlando Sequera: exposure, do not have access to that. They
Orlando Sequera: are working in operations they are working on. They're gonna be work. They're the subject matter experts that are going to be working on the project put. They do not have access to that bigger. Usually they do not have access to that bigger picture. Your sponsor, that
Orlando Sequera: upper management desk. You should have it if you don't have it, you should try to get it you that is pivotal for you to be successful with your project, and this is about the genesis of a project, the justification of a project
Orlando Sequera: it that business case this is this is before the project actually exists. So it is important to
Orlando Sequera: understand
Orlando Sequera: and work on that. And and this is even before the business case. Right? We need to understand the goals and objectives of the organization has, so we can then proactively identify some possible opportunities and some possible issues that we might have.
Orlando Sequera: We work with other professionals.
Orlando Sequera: In this case you have a business analyst, someone that has expert knowledge about that specific field. It's assumed that our project is to develop a software for the accounting department.
Orlando Sequera: Then most cases that business analyst is gonna have expert knowledge about accounting, and it's gonna help us to understand what are the business calls of the organization. Perhaps it is increase the efficiency of our
Orlando Sequera: it. They probably want to co increase
Orlando Sequera: cost efficiencies by 20%
Orlando Sequera: The next 3 years. That might be a business call.
Orlando Sequera: they, and they might help
Orlando Sequera: to understand what are the issues that you're facing. Possibly it is with
Orlando Sequera: current regulation or regulation that it's been updated, or opportunities that we have maybe more automation by help. Some of the reports are being done rather manually, etc., so they're gonna help you with that. And this is before the business case. And this
Orlando Sequera: is when you're gonna be able to come up with what should be done that starting to understand this, cope with your project. What should be done? What are the initial limitations or constraints.
Orlando Sequera: the assumptions something that we take to be true without having any.
Orlando Sequera: without something that would take to be true, but we don't really have what we don't know for certain. We we we have to make assumptions usually in predictive a project. Management. We make tons of assumptions. We have to try to be as accurate as possible
Orlando Sequera: risks and dependencies. We're going to elaborate on those later. Then what is the criteria for success. We also need to know that. How do we know that we're what we're doing is actually successful and deciding value? And what is the implementation approach? Are we going?
Orlando Sequera: We go predictive. Should we go agile, or should we use a combined a approach? Okay.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: let's.
Orlando Sequera: Let's continue. And this is going to produce some documentation.
Orlando Sequera: This is going to be the outcome of that initial a analysis. So we're going to start to pro, to be able to produce
Orlando Sequera: this, the documentation that are going to help us throughout the project. A:
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: this is this is really important.
Orlando Sequera: It you gonna have. And some of this basic documentation you're gonna have
Orlando Sequera: a. The organization is following regular standards and procedures. You're gonna have access to them, right? They can help you to understand
Orlando Sequera: project objectives and contribution to the business goals.
Orlando Sequera: They can help the business. And this is where the project selection, criteria comes into play.
Orlando Sequera: Organizations are going to determine whether a project is going to be
Orlando Sequera: proof or not, not because we have a 100 projects. All of them are going to be selected.
Orlando Sequera: They're going to this business documentation, and it's business, justification, business case facilities, duty. That's what I that's what I mean by business documentation.
Orlando Sequera: This is going to help documentation organizations to make the best decisions when it comes to selecting their projects. Remember
Orlando Sequera: every single organization we do not have on limit. No organization in the world has unlimited resources. They have limited resources, and what do I mean by that? They have a limited amount of money and a limited amount of time.
Orlando Sequera: and also a limited amount of people to
Orlando Sequera: conduct the projects, and they're gonna have a criteria for selecting those projects. It's usually based on what's gonna give them more bank for their buck. That's one way, usually looking at financial metrics, but it could also be what's gonna add
Orlando Sequera: more value to the community if they're looking after. If they're chasing that type of business value, it depends on what that's why we talked about business value being defined by the organization. The stakeholders is whatever
Orlando Sequera: this point to help them in making sure that those strategic goals
Orlando Sequera: come to fruition. So they're gonna select projects that are aligned with those calls, and that's something that we have to understand. So our project of a
Orlando Sequera: developing for the account and department, if one of the strategic goals of the organization is to increase efficiency, a associated with a financial efficiency by 20% in the next year. Then
Orlando Sequera: that that's an I Chances are that that project is gonna get selected. So that's gonna help us in justification that's gonna help the organization to
Orlando Sequera: a make the the best decisions possible. And that's why they like this approach. This is systematic. It it's about decision making some of the decision making process. So usually most cases organizations are going to select projects that are aligned with.
Orlando Sequera: They strategic goals that as an organization they have in place. Okay, that's how this a process occurs.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: but we have to helping. We have to work on creating these documents. So this business document, the business case that's
Orlando Sequera: that is crucial. When it comes to providing the justification for your project.
Orlando Sequera: It's gonna help
Orlando Sequera: in present in the case, right? Why should
Orlando Sequera: I, as an organization, invest money and time in this particular project? Well.
Orlando Sequera: that's where the business case is going to answer that question. It's going to provide a cost benefit analysis. It's going to provide a business. Need it's going to provide a
Orlando Sequera: some scheduling cost constraints, answering the questions
Orlando Sequera: answering those questions. Okay. And usually
Orlando Sequera: if he gets accepted, this is gonna help in, and this is gonna be one of
Orlando Sequera: they
Orlando Sequera: documents that we're going to use in order to develop the project. Charter, we're going to talk about the pro charter a little bit later.
Orlando Sequera: So we need to have this in place, but it's also ultimately going to help the organizations to make the best decisions in selecting the projects for their next. The fiscal year, for example.
Orlando Sequera: and when it comes to benefits
Orlando Sequera: we need to have a benefits management plan that
Orlando Sequera: should help us to understand how to create, how to maximize and how to sustain
Orlando Sequera: project benefits. That is important. It's about adding value right providing benefits. That's why we need this benefits management plan.
Orlando Sequera: What is the timeframe. Are we going to have short
Orlando Sequera: benefits, realization, short time, benefit realization, or is it long-term benefits realization? It? It changes from project to project. Who's going to be the benefits owner who's going to benefit within the organization a. Or who's the accountable person? Them going back to? Why do we? And that was a question in the chat I think about.
Orlando Sequera: Why are we talking about a quantifying benefits and quantifying value? Because we have to be able to measure right. So this benefit plan is going to help you with establishing what metrics are you going to be using to to measure those benefits? And then the list of assumptions. Remember what I said. What an assumption is
Orlando Sequera: something that we take to be through without having evidence.
Orlando Sequera: For example, i'll. I'll give you a quick example.
Orlando Sequera: In in the past we work with supplier a
Orlando Sequera: and supplier a always deliver.
Orlando Sequera: They're deliver on time.
Orlando Sequera: Therefore we're going to assume that for this new project
Orlando Sequera: Supplier a is going to deliver again on time. That's an assumption that i'm making.
Orlando Sequera: Is that going to be the case? Maybe maybe not.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: when I have to make assumptions
Orlando Sequera: especially, we're working, following a predictive approach right? But we have to make some. We're going to have to make assumptions. We're going to have, we should try to be as accurate as possible with those assumptions, and that Benefits Management plan is also going to list
Orlando Sequera: the limitations that we have the constraints and risks at that level. But
Orlando Sequera: this is all high level information. Okay, this is before your. This is before we get to the
Orlando Sequera: we have to. We have to do a deeper dive and work on the project. But this is at the Genesis stage of the project we haven't really started in planning. We're gonna do a deeper dive when it comes to to that.
Orlando Sequera: Okay?
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: some of the benefit measurement
Orlando Sequera: methods that we have
Orlando Sequera: the cost-benefit analysis that's measuring. That's how many organizations are going to a
Orlando Sequera: determine
Orlando Sequera: based on the cost. This is this is how much it's going to cost me, and these are the benefits associated with that, and they
Orlando Sequera: more, the the the more benefits, less cost. That's usually the way, the way they do it. Okay, and that's how they justified their investment. That's one way. The cost benefit analysis.
Orlando Sequera: and they also have
Orlando Sequera: additional criteria. Most of this
Orlando Sequera: criteria are
Orlando Sequera: financial metrics like
Orlando Sequera: rest and value Future value. Net press of value. Return of investment that some of you mentioned internal rate of return. Hey?
Orlando Sequera: Something that you see here that is important and going to highlight, You might have that question. Do I need to learn the formula of present value for the Pmp. Exam. The answer is, no.
Orlando Sequera: But you need to know that
Orlando Sequera: this is criteria that is used by
Orlando Sequera: organizations to determine
Orlando Sequera: with, to select their projects.
Orlando Sequera: to select which projects are going to be conducted within the organization. Okay. And again, I'm talking about the genesis of a project. This is before even you as a Pm. Come into the picture right.
Orlando Sequera: But we're trying to understand what happens in that business environment. That's why we started with E. F. Opas we're starting to understand. That's why we're talking about strategic goals. There's a lot that happens before a project
Orlando Sequera: gets assigned to a Pm: okay, we to understand that because the better
Orlando Sequera: the better we understand that
Orlando Sequera: the bet chances our chances of success are going to increase. This is happening that Genesis area.
Orlando Sequera: the project
Orlando Sequera: doesn't exist. Officially. It's in that Genesis area Pre Pre project to give it a name, right? But it's happening in that environment. This is where do projects come from? This is answering that question. Remember, organizations are going to be. They have their strategic goals, and they need
Orlando Sequera: they use project management as a systematic way to conduct their projects.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: then.
Orlando Sequera: this: these are
Orlando Sequera: again financial metrics that many organizations use to determine the there to select their projects. Do not, do you? You do not? I'm gonna repeat it one more time. Do you do not need to calculate any of these financial metrics
Orlando Sequera: present value, future value, net present value? Do you do not need to calculate that for the Pmp. But you need to know that this is criteria used by organizations to select their projects. Another one is opportunity cost.
Orlando Sequera: What happens if we don't complete that project so.
Orlando Sequera: and the payback period the shorter time
Orlando Sequera: that's that's gonna be better right. So
Orlando Sequera: shorter pay back period the better, because that means that that's when we're going to start getting a profit.
Orlando Sequera: So this is criteria that is used.
Orlando Sequera: Patients to
Orlando Sequera: a select their projects
Orlando Sequera: a little bit deeper explanation.
Orlando Sequera: a present value.
Orlando Sequera: It covers
Orlando Sequera: the several time periods. It could be months. It could be years
Orlando Sequera: when the value of money might change, and it takes into account, of course, taking to account factors like inflation, it, you need some piece of information to calculate present value. The interest rate
Orlando Sequera: is one of them. The number of periods, for example.
Orlando Sequera: and the future value. Net present value is used by organizations for capital budgeting, and it takes into account inflation and compa compares the value
Orlando Sequera: of
Orlando Sequera: $100 today the same currents to a $100 in the future. So it's gonna allow you to do that, and then organizations can make the decision based on that.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, to select their projects. So it's about Project selection
Orlando Sequera: that's as far as you need to know, you do not need to know the actual, a
Orlando Sequera: the actual
Orlando Sequera: formulas for the Pmp. Exam: You're not gonna have a a question. How do you calculate the net person value. Given this re a 10% is the interest rate. And can you? No, no, that's out of go for the exam. However, you need to know the organizations use this financial metrics to select
Orlando Sequera: their projects
Orlando Sequera: all right. So i'm gonna go over some questions in the Q. A. We had to pass the chat. It was getting a little bit out of control.
Orlando Sequera: But please vote on the questions that you feel
Orlando Sequera: the If you have the same question, vote on the questions, and that will
Orlando Sequera: bump it up, and we'll make sure that he gets addressed.
Orlando Sequera: All right. A.
Orlando Sequera: Oh, this one here this is from from earlier. I'm gonna i'm gonna address it, because even though it was from the previous break.
Orlando Sequera: If you don't pass the exam of the first try, can you take it. Yes, but there's a cost associated with that.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, i'm gonna go to the is this: there's another question in the Q. A. Is this gate? 0?
Orlando Sequera: Hmm. I'm. Not familiar with that, Kate 0. But this is a genesis. I'm gonna venture to say yes is what happens before the projects have been selected.
Orlando Sequera: Why only quantify? Because you have to be able to measure the benefits
Orlando Sequera: right?
Orlando Sequera: This Kate 0, I'll have to double check on that, as I mentioned. But it. What happens at the very beginning number
Orlando Sequera: tempted to say Yes, but i'll have to double check.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right, I think.
Orlando Sequera: A:
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: There's a question in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: This project, Genesis, the term we'll see in the Exam. Note.
Nope.
Orlando Sequera: I'm. Just trying to explain that it's before
Orlando Sequera: the projects are born
Orlando Sequera: and select it
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: present value, and at present value
Orlando Sequera: list inflation as examples. Not here. Not sure how these values differ. Again, what you need to
Orlando Sequera: remember for the exam. We're i'm going to
Orlando Sequera: highlight that in scope for the exam is to understand that there are multiple metrics, financial metrics. In this case that organizations use to
Orlando Sequera: select projects
Orlando Sequera: press invalid. They want to make sure that they get the best
Orlando Sequera: bank for their book, the best, the most
Orlando Sequera: a profit
Orlando Sequera: for their investment. That's what they're looking for in the shorter amount the shortest amount of time possible. So they once I have a higher person, value and net present value in a shorter timeframe. Those are the projects that most likely are going to be selected. That's as far as that's as far as as you need to go when it comes to this metrics and the shorter payback period.
Orlando Sequera: of course.
Orlando Sequera: and the higher return of investment, of course.
Orlando Sequera: So that's what you need to.
Orlando Sequera: That's as far as you need. Please Remember, it's a Pmp. Exam class.
Orlando Sequera: Do companies try to predict inflation or use a historical leverage that's out of scope for the class.
Orlando Sequera: That's probably an accounting question.
Orlando Sequera: I'm sure they have ways to predict inflation or but that is out of scope for the Pmp extent.
Orlando Sequera: Do. We need business business case by an analyst in agile approach at least a little bit different. But you do need to have some background.
Orlando Sequera: You do need to have. Yes, for both you. You do need to have some justification, regardless of the approach that happens later. But yes, you need a business case.
Orlando Sequera: a justification for the project. Absolutely
Orlando Sequera: another question in the Q. A. Is it the project sponsor Who does the project? Selection
Orlando Sequera: not necessarily depends on the organization. It could be
Orlando Sequera: a board. It really depends on the organization. That's why you need to know your organizational structure and how
Orlando Sequera: the how to navigate that environment. It changes. It could be the Pmo. It could be a group of people, a board, a governing, a steering committee, a a a governance board. So it really depends on the organization.
Orlando Sequera: That's correct Sponsor, Big Mp: Remember, this is not just the proxy sponsor. This is the organization Selecting projects is before a sponsor is assigned, but organizations usually pick them.
Orlando Sequera: Projects select projects that have a higher net person value. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: another question can. The project just is in the Q. A can the pro justification be based on the time, safe and list number resources used
Orlando Sequera: absolutely in some cases? Yes.
Orlando Sequera: there's another question how to measure intangible? It's a little bit more cumbersome but
Orlando Sequera: positive impact brand recognition. It's a little bit more
Orlando Sequera: difficult challenging to measure intangibles
Orlando Sequera: like those, for example. But there are way customer, satisfaction, index nps could be a way to do that
Orlando Sequera: so satisfactory with surveys and satisfaction surveys. There are ways to even measure those intangibles.
Orlando Sequera: It's a little bit more challenging, and you might have to use more tools and techniques for that. But it is possible
Orlando Sequera: it's another question in the Q. A. As a project manager. What responsibility do we assume for pitch and justified? This is before you come into the picture. This is your this is happening before you actually come into the into the picture.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: this is the sponsor and the decision-makers at
Orlando Sequera: the higher level. And the but there! What we need to know how that project selection happens.
Orlando Sequera: The more we know about it, the
Orlando Sequera: 10 we're going to increase our chances for success.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: okay.
Orlando Sequera: there's another question in the chat. How can we verify accuracy of the business value plan? This is case that's what you're gonna do with your project? We're we're that's way far ahead with the project. Not right. Now. We're talking about project selection.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: We also have
Orlando Sequera: objectives and key results, and these okay, ours can help us to deliver business value.
Orlando Sequera: So we usually start with this strategic planning
Orlando Sequera: following the organizational objectives. And then
Orlando Sequera: we should understand and work or organizations are gonna Organizations are going to decide which are the desire key results that can be achieved by programs or projects. So by.
Orlando Sequera: as I mentioned before, an example reduced or increase the level of efficiency of financial and accounting operations by 20. That's an example of organizational objective, and the key desired result could be Well, we would like to increase the level of efficiency of accounting processes by 20%.
Orlando Sequera: And that's what's that's what's gonna help us to come up with an all Kr
Orlando Sequera: objective and key results, and
Orlando Sequera: these objectives are going to be those goals and intense. And we can then further refine that.
Orlando Sequera: with our goal of
Orlando Sequera: increasing the efficiency of the accounting department by 20%, and we can
Orlando Sequera: measure that we can. It has to be a achievable. It has to be a feasible.
Orlando Sequera: It has to be, we have to be able to measure it so we can then come up with milestones on under those goals, on intents that we have
Orlando Sequera: some of the best practices that organization should follow. When it comes to okay, ours or objectives and key results.
Orlando Sequera: we should have each objective
Orlando Sequera: have it supported by 3 to 5
Orlando Sequera: measurable key results.
Orlando Sequera: and then we should AIM for a 70% success rate
Orlando Sequera: to encourage competitive gold, making
Orlando Sequera: a 100% success rate should be evaluated as because it might mean that we're it's not challenging enough.
Orlando Sequera: And then okay, ours should be action oriented. That's gonna help with motivation and inspiration
Orlando Sequera: for the rest of the organization, but they should include concrete and measurable outcomes. Okay, so this is how we start tying up our individual
Orlando Sequera: goals and objectives of our individual initiatives, projects with those
Orlando Sequera: objectives and key results that the organizations have.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: i'm going to review
Orlando Sequera: any additional questions that
Orlando Sequera: all right?
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: value delivery.
Orlando Sequera: we don't have to.
Orlando Sequera: We we don't have to deliver necessarily
Orlando Sequera: all the value doesn't have to be delivered at the end of the project. Necessarily we can deliver an increment
Orlando Sequera: we can deliver in increments, and that's why agile that's one of the key aspects of Agile, for example, agile is built in a way that allows
Orlando Sequera: project teams that allows organizations to deliver value.
Orlando Sequera: Incrementally.
Orlando Sequera: it's a. It's a framework that allows an an approach. It's an approach that allows organizations to deliver value and commit the meaning that you don't have to wait it's. Assume that your project is to build a new, a
Orlando Sequera: a new type of electric car. You don't have to wait until the actual completed car is billed to start and in value you might be doing an increments.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, or just starting to the or let's go back to the example of the software for the accounting department.
Orlando Sequera: Following an incremental approach, we can start delivering pieces of functionality
Orlando Sequera: in increments, one iteration at a time every 2 weeks, every 3 weeks a week for weeks
Orlando Sequera: that the business can start using in production and start benefit, they can start benefiting from those from that functionality. Perhaps reports that right now take them a. Let's assume, for example, that one of the main
Orlando Sequera: a headache that that, or pain points that you're that they are currently, primarily suffering right now is that it takes them 3 days to generate a monthly sales report
Orlando Sequera: 3 full days to run the monthly sales report. So with our software. If that is
Orlando Sequera: at the top of the functionality that we have to deliver. That's one of the that is the main that that is the most important functionality that we have to deliver in that particular iteration. We can
Orlando Sequera: then
Orlando Sequera: build that functionality
Orlando Sequera: that can be deployed to production, and they can start working
Orlando Sequera: and generating that monthly sales report. And now, with a new software. It might only take them
Orlando Sequera: a half an hour or 2 h. So you're reducing the 3 days to just a half an hour. That's one way that. That's how we can
Orlando Sequera: that it's an example of incremental value delivery that's gonna help you to enable value delivery sooner. You don't have to wait until the entire account in software is completed.
Orlando Sequera: It's also going to help you
Orlando Sequera: to
Orlando Sequera: attain a higher customer value and increase market share, because this is, there's a timing consideration here, and you can. You can do a delivery partial delivery, and that's what's gonna help you to pay what to change to make changes.
Orlando Sequera: Change the course if you have to change the course, because you're going to have a pivot pivotal points in between iterations that can allow you and the team to make modifications to change the course if needed, and it also helps you to get feedback early. They don't have to
Orlando Sequera: your stakeholders the accounting department they don't have to wait until the entire software is built before they can provide you with feedback. So that's what's gonna help you to change course. And this is Specifically, this is why Agile helps you to navigate a situations in which there's a lot of changes
Orlando Sequera: that this is going to be your best bet, and it really helps with adding value
Orlando Sequera: in a timely manner.
Orlando Sequera: All right. Let me review
Orlando Sequera: few questions in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: and we can.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to unpost
Orlando Sequera: the chat.
Orlando Sequera: and i'm going to address.
Orlando Sequera: So the chat is on past right now.
Orlando Sequera: You can use it for
Orlando Sequera: questions that are related to the to the content. And i'm going to try
Orlando Sequera: to answer some of the questions in your
Orlando Sequera: in the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: There's a question in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: What are some examples of implementing incremental value delivery. That's what I just mentioned. With the accounting software. We don't have to wait until the entire.
Orlando Sequera: That's a question in the chat. By the way.
Orlando Sequera: where are some examples of implementing incremental value delivery? Well, that's one. You can deliver that functionality.
Orlando Sequera: a of
Orlando Sequera: being able to create a monthly sales report
Orlando Sequera: right now. You don't have to wait on You don't have to wait 6 months until the entire so new a accounting software is completed. That's an example of it
Orlando Sequera: is the incremental value delivery
Orlando Sequera: only relevant to adaptive model. Not necessarily that's another question in the chat. Not necessarily, but it really helps
Orlando Sequera: it's. It's crucial when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: a to navigating situations of high complexity or a lot of changes that's
Orlando Sequera: This is
Orlando Sequera: not only applicable to to to agile to adaptive is also applicable to predictive. Remember, that is tied up to adding value, regardless of the approach, is tied up to
Orlando Sequera: the definition of success for any project, regardless of the approach, whether it's predictive or whether it is an active or agile or hybrid. Okay. But
Orlando Sequera: what I was trying to point out. Is that
Orlando Sequera: adaptive or agile, has a built in framework that allows you it's already a. You have the
Orlando Sequera: it's like plug and play. It's already there for you if you're going to be facing situations in which you you navigate a lot of changes.
Orlando Sequera: All this incremental value. Delivery is is built in basically building functionality in that approach that will help you to make sure that a
Orlando Sequera: generating value is achievable in those situations. But regardless of the approach you should focus on adding value
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: If another question in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: does the Pm. Have a role in defining and measuring the value of the project, or that the Pm. Simply execute. Remember what I mentioned before, and that was mentioned before. Value is defined by the business, by the stakeholders, not by you. The Pm: Not by the team members. Okay, and that's usually something that
Orlando Sequera: we have to really make sure and coach our team members because they might have different perspectives. Usually team members are very smart people, and there's they in some cases, and I have seen it Witness that personally they try to. Oh, they don't really know what they want. This is what they really want. No, that's not how it works.
Orlando Sequera: We value is device. Whatever is
Orlando Sequera: value is
Orlando Sequera: defined by the stakeholders by
Orlando Sequera: the organization, by the business, not by the team, not by you, as the Pm.
Orlando Sequera: Another question.
Orlando Sequera: You're gonna get access to recordings. Remember? That goes in the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: Another question as to the incremental value delivery. Is this a face? It?
Orlando Sequera: No, it is not a face in the in the project of determining the product. The project. This is something. This is one of your
Orlando Sequera: This is ongoing in your project. Life cycle
Orlando Sequera: are the okay are established during needs assessment. Yes, before before projects are selected. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: that's another question in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: Please change your blue box to everyone, so everyone can see your question.
Orlando Sequera: I've been trying to read the questions.
Orlando Sequera: It's pressure it on right
Orlando Sequera: another. There's a comment. If for charity, Don't write, the Charter will help in making that determination.
Orlando Sequera: No, the pro charter happens after the project has been selected. These are.
Orlando Sequera: this happens before projects are selected.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: it might make more sense to use it for contact questions. That's what we were trying to do. But he got a little bit better. Hands
Orlando Sequera: burn down chart. We're not talking. That's we Haven't mentioned that. Please stay on topic.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: let's use the Q. And a. For content. Related questions. Vote on the questions. If you're able to do that, you're gonna help me. Okay, I'm trying to do my best to answer your questions.
Orlando Sequera: But let's
Orlando Sequera: Let's stick to the content. Let's stick to the content.
Orlando Sequera: Another question in the chat
Orlando Sequera: can value of all this project works. Yes, it can change absolutely that can change
Orlando Sequera: It's probably manager, one of stakeholders. Yes, but we're going to talk about the stakeholders in detail. Absolutely.
Orlando Sequera: That's the another question in the chat. That's the price charter helping form the project manager. The value of the project. It's
Orlando Sequera: the best analogy or the project. Charter is a birth certificate. It has high level information about yes, about the benefits and values of the project, but it's way much more than just that, and that happens after the project is selected. Remember that we're talking about
Orlando Sequera: the justification of the project. It happens before the pro. The project has been selected. That is the birth certificate. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: vote on the questions and
Orlando Sequera: the ones that get more more vote in the Q. And a. Are going to be answered.
Orlando Sequera: Another question in the chat can basically find basis value. I have said 2 s ago that value is defined by the stakeholders, by the organization, not by a business analyst or a project manager or team members. I just mentioned that
Orlando Sequera: they can help, but they don't define value.
Orlando Sequera: Value comes from the business
Orlando Sequera: right?
Orlando Sequera: Can the Va. Be considered perfect team? Yes, you can work with specialists. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: So far we have been continue. So far we have been covering
Orlando Sequera: the benefits, the val we have been talking about, evaluating and delivering project benefits and value.
Orlando Sequera: We have been also talking about
Orlando Sequera: how to investigate those benefits.
Orlando Sequera: They are going to be identified and to validate delivery options to deliver value.
Orlando Sequera: That's where that incremental value.
Orlando Sequera: A approach comes into play. If you're navigating a situation in which there are multiple changes.
Orlando Sequera: that if it's going to be your
Orlando Sequera: best bet
Orlando Sequera: agile
Orlando Sequera: because it enables you.
Orlando Sequera: in a in an easier way
Orlando Sequera: to provide incremental value delivery to options to your stakeholders. Okay, so that's why that evaluation and process Eval, you're evaluating here the best approach that you can follow to add value to your stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: and then
Orlando Sequera: you should. We also win over a how to execute the project with the urgency required to deliver this value. So it's about looking at opportunities to deliver value incrementally important for you extend. This is coming from your exam. Content outline. This is what we cover, how these topics are related to
Orlando Sequera: the exam container. This is what you have to watch out for, and I saw some questions about the PIN book, please. The ping book is one of many references. What you really have to focus on is the exam content outline. And we're going to be going over throughout the class to see how the concept that we're covering relate
Orlando Sequera: to the exam content outline. That's your syllables, Not the PIN box is the exam. Content out of the people. It's already still into this content you have to pay attention to the exam. Content outline. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Eco. Stands for exam content outline. I just mentioned that
Orlando Sequera: we
Orlando Sequera: I don't know 5 s ago. So it's the same content outline all right.
Orlando Sequera: Yes, it's some content outline. That is what you have to review, and you can find the exam Content Outline in
Orlando Sequera: the resource, tab, or in Github. That is what you have to review.
Orlando Sequera: The has the 3 domains that we're covering. That's what you have to review. Not the PIN, but not
Orlando Sequera: the other references. That's what you're gonna be tested on. That's why it's so important to review the exam. Content outline. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: A:
Orlando Sequera: All right. So now we're going to continue with the next topic.
Orlando Sequera: As we have mentioned before.
Orlando Sequera: we have mentioned before, the goal that we have with projects is to create and deliver change.
Orlando Sequera: add value
Orlando Sequera: deliver change.
Orlando Sequera: That is
Orlando Sequera: usually the catalyst. That factors is going to accelerate the authorization of a project. Okay, and Pmi. In most cases
Orlando Sequera: that's why Pmi has
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: they call project professionals change makers because it's about change.
Orlando Sequera: Change is probably the biggest factor when it comes to business decision. Then we're gonna take a break in a minute. We're gonna take a break in a in a minute. So
Orlando Sequera: that's why they call them
Orlando Sequera: change Makers project. Managers are also known as change makers. We're making change come to making it. We're making it happen. Okay, with our projects
Orlando Sequera: in
Orlando Sequera: That's why it's so important to understand
Orlando Sequera: that our projects are not done in a vacuum. They're done in an organization for an organization, and that's why it's so important that we are aligned with
Orlando Sequera: the business objective that we have access to that bigger picture. Because that is your environment. Your project is gonna be. No, it's not done in a vacuum. You are part of that larger ecosystem that we call organization. Okay, and that's why we have to follow a systematic approach for project management. We have
Orlando Sequera: A, as we know we have enterprise, environmental factors. We have opa.
Orlando Sequera: We need to take those into account, and we also need to understand
Orlando Sequera: it. Change management
Orlando Sequera: apply to our organization. This is not the same as change control management. We're we're gonna talk about change control manager later. This is about change management, how things are done, how things, how changes are implemented within
Orlando Sequera: the organization? How do they work? How do they
Orlando Sequera: depending on the industry depending on the organization, the values of the organization that intel that you need to have about the organization, that system of beliefs and values. And that's why it that's why it's so important. This takes time with specially, and I can tell you from my own experience, the larger the organization.
Orlando Sequera: one of the biggest challenges that you have as a Pm. Regardless of your the the type of industry is to be able to figure out the organizational culture, especially when you're new to the organization. Take some time. Understand? That's going to help you to understand the power relationships, the key players, how things are done, and this is
Orlando Sequera: part of that tribal knowledge that you need to have
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: as part of your job as a project manager because it's gonna have a major impact on the way your projects are conducted, and it's not.
Orlando Sequera: You're not gonna find that in in an opa. A. It's not part of your onboarding process as a new employee. You have to figure that out. You gotta ask questions. If there is a Pmo in place.
Orlando Sequera: Talk to them. You need to understand. You get a get up to speed quickly on how things are done in the organization, they
Orlando Sequera: the key players. And basically to understand the system of belief that takes time. It's easier said than done. Bodies
Orlando Sequera: important, extremely important. That's a one of the best practice. I would like to highlight for you as a Pm. Especially for those those of you that are transition into new roles.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: all right. So
Orlando Sequera: we're gonna take a break. Let's take our first break. We'll be back in 10 min, and we will be able to continue with the class. So thank you very much. Everyone. We'll be back in 10 min.
Orlando Sequera: Enjoy your break.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to continue with
Orlando Sequera: the class. I know
Orlando Sequera: that many of you had
Orlando Sequera: multiple questions. Okay. So
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: welcome for thank you for coming back. Absolutely, absolutely. But please
Orlando Sequera: let's try to follow the guidelines right
Orlando Sequera: if the chat starts getting out of control. I'm going to pass it
Orlando Sequera: A. But
Orlando Sequera: ideally, we want to give you as many opportunities as possible for you to ask questions.
Orlando Sequera: But if we use the Q. And a. For what it is as we sent earlier in the class today, if you have technical issues.
Orlando Sequera: Please, please, please let us know.
Orlando Sequera: So we can address them. Okay, the mentors are gonna jump on those. Those are the highest priority.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, mentors are gonna be a: we're gonna jump on those and let's try to any questions about audio or video, not working or questions of a. Resources. Q. A
Orlando Sequera: the goal that we had originally with it, with the at the beginning of the class, was
Orlando Sequera: for those of you that had Content related questions.
Orlando Sequera: What for all of you to see the questions and then vote on those questions. Okay, so we can. So we can then answer the actual.
Orlando Sequera: The questions I get the most vote. As we said before, I want to remind you another guideline. It is impossible to answer every single question we're doing our best. I'm doing my best to review both the chat and the Q. A. But
Orlando Sequera: as we go up we also have to cover the Content right board. Help me in voting for those questions. Help me also with standing questions related to the content that we are covering. We're not here to
Orlando Sequera: to the consulting. We're not here to help you with those a. With those parts. We're here to help you to pass the Pmp. Exam. And also we're here to help you with
Orlando Sequera: best practices for project management. These tools can be applied to any situation. So that's what we're here for. Okay, we're we're not here to to solve any consulting specific issues that you might have. That's outside of scope for this class. So those questions are not going to be. Answer.
Orlando Sequera: Please stay on
Orlando Sequera: topic, and If you have questions about the resources.
Orlando Sequera: please make sure that you post those in the Q. And a. All right. The check starts getting out of control. We are going to pass it.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, and I see that there is a lot of you that are asking for the chat
Orlando Sequera: a to be passed. So please, please, please, please
Orlando Sequera: list.
Orlando Sequera: They start with. If it starts getting out of control. I'm going to post the chat. So let's continue with
Orlando Sequera: the content. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: and vote on the questions. If you see one question that you might have, I have the same question vote on the question that's gonna help me help me to help you or help us to help you. All right.
Orlando Sequera: We're trying to keep those instructions to a minimum.
Orlando Sequera: And if this, if the chat as I say it starts getting out of control. I'm going to pass it. But
Orlando Sequera: let's use the resources the way we're supposed to use them by now. We should be experts. We know that if we are perceiving users we can go to Percipio, and we can click on on resources, and that's how we can get to the exam company outline.
Orlando Sequera: and that's how we can get the attendance tracker and all the resources for the class, the everything that we need to get ready for the Pmp. Exam. Is gonna be their injured recently. Even there's one that is called Pm. Illustrated.
Orlando Sequera: Great Resource. This was created by Mike Griffiths great resource that can help you to understand the processes and the process goals in a following an illustrated way.
Orlando Sequera: It's great and also agile and predictive multiple resources skills of has done a great job in providing a central repository that covers all the resources that you need to be successful. This preparation you don't need to go anywhere else. And then the other important resources desperate. You can take practice questions
Orlando Sequera: that that are written by
Orlando Sequera: project management professionals, questions that are
Orlando Sequera: really going to get you ready for the Pmp. Except for those of you that are a right. Now thinking what type of questions i'm going to be facing you happen in front of you with test prep. Okay. So
Orlando Sequera: please
Orlando Sequera: make sure that you are
Orlando Sequera: that you use the resources that you have. You have everything you need, and then some to be successful with your
Orlando Sequera: with your actual
Orlando Sequera: project management preparation. Okay, and be ready to pass the Pmc. That Pmp: Exam on your first try. We have been able to help thousands of candidates. Please trust the system. We have done this, but we have. This is
Orlando Sequera: a another iteration of years in the making. We have helped thousands of candidates, and they have been successful. So please trust the system. Please stay focus on the topics that we are
Orlando Sequera: highlighting, stressing, and
Orlando Sequera: if it's not relevant for the exam, we need to know what it is. But if it's not relevant, I'm not gonna be stressing or or spending time on that. I'm gonna make sure that I highlight and stress those areas of the content that are important for you to master for the exam. Okay. So we we post the chat
Orlando Sequera: and the
Orlando Sequera: Let's
Orlando Sequera: use the Q. And a
Orlando Sequera: for questions. Vote on the questions, please. Please. Please do not replace the chat
Orlando Sequera: with the Q. A. Don't do that, either. Don't start putting comments in the Q. A. That's that's not gonna help us. Okay, so let's stay in focus. They stay focused on what we're trying to to achieve, which is to cover the content and get ready for
Orlando Sequera: the Pmp. Exempt.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: as I was mentioning before.
Orlando Sequera: This is an important topic. This is the the essential culture. We need to understand that it takes time easier set than done. It takes time special if you're new to the organization, and
Orlando Sequera: if you are.
Orlando Sequera: if you're new to the organization, if you're new to project management as well. It takes time. This is about knowing the key players how things are done. This is part of that tribal knowledge
Orlando Sequera: that you're not gonna be able to. It's not gonna be written in that onboarding documentation. It is not written in a policy. You have to learn that because this is gonna have an impact on the way your projects are conducted. It is
Orlando Sequera: enterprise, environmental factor. As we said before, it is an internal enterprise, environmental fact.
Orlando Sequera: and also to understand change management. But this is what we mean by change.
Richmond.
Orlando Sequera: It is
Orlando Sequera: they how organizations embrace, change as a strategy.
Orlando Sequera: Some of them are
Orlando Sequera: resistant to changes.
Orlando Sequera: Some of them embrace.
Orlando Sequera: change in
Orlando Sequera: embrace, change.
Orlando Sequera: email more.
Orlando Sequera: They're more conducive to change. They embrace, change. Basically Some of them are reluctant to change. So we need to understand that we need to understand that one key resource that will help us to understand that is going to be relying on the Pmo. They can help you to
Orlando Sequera: understand the alignment between your projects and the organization. Pmos that are great resources. You have one, please. By all means make sure that you're relying on the organization. Okay, that you rely on the Pmo. To understand the organization.
Orlando Sequera: this organization of culture is
Orlando Sequera: he and change management their key factors when it comes to project success or failure
Orlando Sequera: in
Orlando Sequera: this is one key aspect of project management per say, is being able to work with other people, being able to
Orlando Sequera: lead projects in a way that they drive
Orlando Sequera: changes in a changing environment. Right? We're trying to drive changes in a changing environment. We to be able to navigate that, and we need to be able to position our project teams
Orlando Sequera: in a way that they are successful. Things are going to be changing.
Orlando Sequera: and when it comes to organizational culture
Orlando Sequera: key players they can change. They can be removed. They can. We can have new players. We need to understand all those different relationships that's part of that ecosystem that we have to navigate as project managers that's gonna have an impact on
Orlando Sequera: success
Orlando Sequera: and failure for that matter for a project. So we really need to have
Orlando Sequera: that a
Orlando Sequera: that actual understanding, it takes time. It takes time
Orlando Sequera: it Some organizations they embrace change. As I mentioned before. Some of them
Orlando Sequera: are reluctant to changes, so we need to understand that what type of organization are we working with?
Orlando Sequera: If your organization, as I mentioned before the key resource for you to navigate. This is gonna be a Pmo. If the organization has a Pmo. In place.
Orlando Sequera: you can
Orlando Sequera: go to the Pmo. Get access to
Orlando Sequera: the
Orlando Sequera: guidelines, the templates, the documentation templates that you need to use for your projects that usually it's going to be. It's. It's going to be available to you, but also they are going to be.
Orlando Sequera: They're going to be
Orlando Sequera: available. They're gonna be able to provide you with that guidance in understanding the organizational culture, understanding the organization.
Orlando Sequera: change management. It also works hand in hand with continuous improvement and knowledge transfer activities at the Pmo level.
Orlando Sequera: and this is one of the 3 areas in which
Orlando Sequera: project management organizations can support value delivery.
Orlando Sequera: The other 2 are fostering delivery and outcomes, oriented capabilities, and also helping us to keep a big picture perspective. Remember what I mentioned before. We need to look at project managers at
Orlando Sequera: the big picture, not just
Orlando Sequera: not just what we have in front of us for for the next week or 2 weeks. No, we need to look at a bigger picture.
Orlando Sequera: The actual
Orlando Sequera: experts working in in our project team. They're the ones that are going to be dealing with a day daily tasks
Orlando Sequera: or daily activities. But we have to have that understanding of bigger picture. And, more importantly, we have to be able to communicate that bigger picture to the team, because sometimes this happens more often that not has happened to me multiple times.
Orlando Sequera: The members
Orlando Sequera: do not understand. Why are they working on a specific project? Why am I working on the software on this act software for the accounting department. This this is boring work. I don't see the point of why they already have one in place. Why do we have to work on this particular on this project, this, this is boring. This is not challenging.
Orlando Sequera: They might feel that way and guess what that's gonna have an impact on their productivity and their motivation. Who has access to that bigger picture to communicate to them.
Orlando Sequera: This is why we are working. We were assigned to work on this project. Your organization is willing to invest money and resources
Orlando Sequera: in this particular project, because
Orlando Sequera: it's align with organizational goals. We have access to that. We have to make sure that
Orlando Sequera: we convey that information to our projecting members.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: so that is a that is crucial, and we have to leverage a Pmo. To achieve that.
Orlando Sequera: How can we be successful when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: managing
Orlando Sequera: organizational change on?
Orlando Sequera: Imagine you're going to change your changes of
Orlando Sequera: impact on projects?
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: it starts by
Orlando Sequera: something that we have mentioned multiple times
Orlando Sequera: understanding the organizational culture. This is the ecosystem in which our projects are going to be conducted. As I mentioned before. If you're working for an organization that is.
Orlando Sequera: I give you, i'll give you an example
Orlando Sequera: for those of you that have had the chance to work with a Federal government here in the Us.
Orlando Sequera: There is a particular way that things are done for government contractors right? So you need to understand
Orlando Sequera: how the or what are the power relationships with your organization, the key roles, the philosophy, the values. You need to understand that that's going to drive many of that's going to have a huge impact on the way Your projects are conducted, and sometimes they are not.
Orlando Sequera: In some cases those relationships are clear.
Orlando Sequera: It's easy for you to understand that they put in some other cases. They're not. You're working a working as a as a NASA contractor for multiple years.
Orlando Sequera: Some of those relationship between the customer and the the contractor. We're not. We're not really clear You were supporting multiple departments within the same or a customer organization in this case, NASA, the different reporting relationships. And
Orlando Sequera: do you need to understand and navigate that? To understand who your customer, I I guess the key question, you might be wondering, how do I do that
Orlando Sequera: understand? You might ask yourself who your customer is, who your real customer is? Who am I building this functionality for, and that's gonna help you to start understanding that.
Orlando Sequera: And then the different relationships
Orlando Sequera: power relationships
Orlando Sequera: That's why we start. We're going to be talking about that it later. We need to understand at the very beginning of our project. Who are we to identify who our stakeholders are, who is going to be impacted by the project. Who can impact our project?
Orlando Sequera: We need to understand who those are and that needs to happen early in the project, so we can be successful.
Orlando Sequera: So we also need to evaluate the the impact of organizational change, To project and determine required actions.
Orlando Sequera: changes in that landscape of the organization. How they're going to impact the project. We also need to understand that
Orlando Sequera: we should be able to recommend possible options for changes in the project, and also this is an ongoing task
Orlando Sequera: of monitoring those
Orlando Sequera: enterprise environmental factors because they change. They change multiple times.
Orlando Sequera: this
Orlando Sequera: external and and the person or male factors. They're changing all the time a
Orlando Sequera: a quick example.
Orlando Sequera: I I don't think that many organizations have under greater a global pandemic back in 2,018 or 20, even 20, nineteenth.
Orlando Sequera: So it was more of a close to Science Fiction a some in some cases not; but I don't think many organizations had that on the radar or the possible impacts at a global scale that that global pandemic were
Orlando Sequera: would have would have had, as we learned in the in in 2,020 right. So these are these factors are changing that we need to be. We. We need to constantly monitor their change, or it could be
Orlando Sequera: changes in new laws or existing laws are modified or changes in the marketplace. Maybe right now the type of resources that we need. They They are available.
Orlando Sequera: Perhaps there's some changes in the industry, and that's no longer the case. So that's always changing that environment that ecosystem the projects that is always changing. And that's why we have to constantly monitor that environment.
Orlando Sequera: I'm gonna take a look at the questions
Orlando Sequera: in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: I'm sorry not in the chat in the Q. And a.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. There's an earlier question about
Orlando Sequera: TV and Mpv: we know that we don't need to know those formulas.
Orlando Sequera: We're not gonna
Orlando Sequera: go do any deeper dives on the Mpv. And Pv. Those are
Orlando Sequera: financial metrics that are used to select
Orlando Sequera: to select our projects by organizations.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: okay for content related questions in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: I'm: sorry in the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: Are there numerical questions in the exam? Not many, if any, at all? Our
Orlando Sequera: questions are about interpretation, even when we, when we cover topics like earn value management. This particular version of the Pmp. Exam. Is more about interpretation of results, not about formula. So
Orlando Sequera: No.
Orlando Sequera: that's
Orlando Sequera: that's a question that was in the chat. So the questions about it are about interpretation of results.
Orlando Sequera: There's another question that we need business case for analysts and by business, at least in that you approach. Yeah, that's about the justification that happens before the actual selection of the project.
Orlando Sequera: That's done.
Orlando Sequera: That's done
so. This question.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Our question
Orlando Sequera: about
Orlando Sequera: incremental versus iterative
Orlando Sequera: incremental means that we don't build all the functionality in
Orlando Sequera: in one particular iteration or sprint.
Orlando Sequera: We're gonna be building increments. We're gonna start with this reports or this functionality first, and then in the next iteration, we're gonna add additional functionality and so on and so forth until we complete the entire function. That's how we do it in agile, okay.
Orlando Sequera: and iterative means that we do it multiple times in iterations. That comes from a Latin iterary. And that's what exactly what it means means multiple times.
I think. I ask.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: okay, i'm looking for
Orlando Sequera: any other questions. All right.
Orlando Sequera: There's some. There's a question in the Chat
Orlando Sequera: Ornando. You said that the Pmo. Will provide the best update for the organization's culture.
Orlando Sequera: What if your assessment of the organization that's not aligned with
Orlando Sequera: with that due to key players
Orlando Sequera: withholding information. Well.
Orlando Sequera: in that specific case.
Orlando Sequera: talk to other project managers.
Orlando Sequera: A talk to try to validate it. It really depends. If you're new to the organization talk, you gotta talk to people, talk to your sponsor. Your sponsor is vested in the project, and
Orlando Sequera: he or she, they want your project to be successful. So talk to people. That's the best answer to validate your
Orlando Sequera: your assumptions and try to make sure
Orlando Sequera: that you understand the culture
Orlando Sequera: a well. And you understand those power relationships, etc. So
Orlando Sequera: talk to people network with people within the organization. That's the best answer for that.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: there's another question in the chat. My laptop was frozen for a moment, and I missed your points on Pmo. The main take away from the Pmo. Aspect is leverage them. Use the Pmo. To
Orlando Sequera: understand the organization. Culture also as a source for artifacts and templates
Orlando Sequera: in
Orlando Sequera: all day
Orlando Sequera: documentation that you need to have in place for your project sources templates for for that documentation that is required. You leverage the pmo
Orlando Sequera: leverage, the Pmo. If you have one in in place in your organization. So that was the the the main, the main point
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: That's it for the chat. Thank you for keeping it under control.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: And I'm. Trying to look for other questions in the Q. A. They need to be answered.
Orlando Sequera: Content related questions. That is.
Orlando Sequera: It's a question about metrics selecting projects. Is there? Is there ever a time which a project is selected? Has a lower plan value than the other than the other.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: That happens in real life. Yes, but for the exam, remember, the main takeaway is to understand that those financial metrics are used to
Orlando Sequera: those. Those are the financial metrics used to select projects by organizations so usually for those person purpose. It's going to be. They they once they have they hire a Pv. The higher Mpv. Shorter a or shortest, the payback period, etc. Those are the ones that are going to be selected.
So
Orlando Sequera: that's done.
I explain
Orlando Sequera: the difference between incremental and iterative.
Orlando Sequera: How often did you suggest? We reviewed some content outline. Well as we cover the content, and then you can review.
Orlando Sequera: you can review it again at the end of the class to find out your
Orlando Sequera: You can perform a sort analysis. You should understand your
Orlando Sequera: you should understand your weaknesses and your strengths, which areas you need to work on a little bit more so
Orlando Sequera: at the end of the class, and as we cover this topics. That's a recommendation. But that's what you're going to be tested on. Bmi is
Orlando Sequera: looking for a. With the Pmp. Exam what they really testing you on is how well can you solve problems? The the exam is about solving problems
Orlando Sequera: using those
Orlando Sequera: tools and techniques that we're covering throughout the class. The application of these tools and techniques is about problem solving. That's what the exam is all about.
Orlando Sequera: and that requires a experience that requires also exposure to this to this company?
Orlando Sequera: Right?
Orlando Sequera: Yes. And
Orlando Sequera: remember, if you really want to know, what type of questions am I going to be facing? You Have test prep in persecution.
Orlando Sequera: Those are that is your sandbox. So you can take practice questions, and it's gonna get you.
Orlando Sequera: That's gonna get you ready for the Pmp. Exam. There's another question in the chat. Please change your blue box to
Orlando Sequera: everyone, so everyone can see your question. Our today's topic part of Pmp: Exam: Absolutely. Yes, that's a Yes, we capital, Yes, everything that we're covering in the class is related to your Pmp: Exam.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: How can we get to know those
Orlando Sequera: organizational cultures and styles.
Orlando Sequera: This is about the view of leadership.
Orlando Sequera: We need to understand that view of leadership. That's what I was mentioning before about those power relationships right. It's leadership, hierarchy, and authority. We to understand that that changes from an organization to organization. That's it. That is one key aspect of the organization culture. It takes time. The larger the organization, the more complex this is going to be. It takes time
Orlando Sequera: to understand a. To understand that. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: then it's about
Orlando Sequera: understanding theervation, the leaves, and the expectations that you have
Orlando Sequera: for
Orlando Sequera: your for the
Orlando Sequera: not that you have that the organization has in place. You need to understand that where they're going, what are the values where they relieve? That's what we mean by our organizational culture it is. It's important to understand that. And that in this culture is going to dictate the hierarchy and the type of leadership
Orlando Sequera: that is
Orlando Sequera: going to exist in the organization, and also the power relationships of
Orlando Sequera: all there a other type of of of of the different departments of the organization that's super important. That's part of the Intel that you have to work on to make sure that you are going to understand it, that you need to understand
Orlando Sequera: in order to be successful. This is gonna dictate how projects are gonna be done. This is why this is so important, the code of contact they operate in the operating environment. What is the actual motivation and reward system that is in place for the company, and that it is.
Orlando Sequera: it is really important, the Us. Upm.
Orlando Sequera: that you have a solid knowledge as quickly as possible, especially if you're new to your organization, You're gonna. This is part of your sync or swim. This is one of the initial tasks that you have to work on to make sure that you understand that landscape
Orlando Sequera: as as thoroughly as possible
Orlando Sequera: and as quickly as possible, because it's gonna dictate. It's gonna help you in increasing the chances of being successful with your projects. This is one of the key aspects, and I've been mentioning this a lot. This is going to be in your exam. This is important to understand. For the exam.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, a a quick example of this organizational culture will be a company that allows their employees or team members to work flexible hours compared to another type of organization that is strictly 8 to 5
Orlando Sequera: work days
Orlando Sequera: at the office. No exceptions allowed
Orlando Sequera: that
Orlando Sequera: it's gonna have an impact in the way that you scheduled your project activities. And it's also gonna have an impact on team morale and how the team conducts their interactions
Orlando Sequera: Right? So you, you, you don't have any control over the approach of the come. Some companies allow a a hybrid approach that they have hours of the office, and then they can work remotely as well. Some of them are. That's that's a known of everybody's coming back to the workplace, etc. So you need to understand that
Orlando Sequera: because it's gonna have an impact on the way you scheduled your productivity. It's gonna have an impact on the way those relationships within the team a occur. So you need to know that for your
Orlando Sequera: for your
Orlando Sequera: projects.
Orlando Sequera: in order to be successful.
Orlando Sequera: I see some of you that have started to take the
Orlando Sequera: So you start using a test prep. Do you do not need to go outside of
Orlando Sequera: this resources. It's up to you.
Orlando Sequera: There are some resources outside of what we offer, but with what what we have is
Orlando Sequera: it's enough for you to get to get ready for the Pmp: Exam.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: A:
Orlando Sequera: All right. There's a practice section in Precipio. That's where your test prep is going to be at
Orlando Sequera: all right
Orlando Sequera: when it comes. Another aspect that we have to really understand about our organizations.
Orlando Sequera: It's about their take on risk.
Orlando Sequera: of course, the culture that we mentioned, and they're taken change.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: this is we. These aspects are
Orlando Sequera: closely related at the organizational level, and this is part of that initial intel work that you have to perform. As I mentioned. You need to understand that really well.
Orlando Sequera: because that you need to understand the risk tolerance.
Orlando Sequera: If and also the rest of your individual stakeholders, will talk about risk that that's a specific section of the content. But you need to understand that. What are they? The the the views that they have about risk. That's gonna change, and and also it changes from region to region.
Orlando Sequera: It changes from an organization to organization. It changes from country to country. It changes from industry to industry
Orlando Sequera: it the type of leadership that we have, or and of course he has an impact on the project team and another aspect that
Orlando Sequera: he's becoming more and more and more prevalent. And this class an example of that is diversity. We're going to be working with people. Chances are in most cases, I would say, I will venture to say that. And in most cases that we're going to be working with teams that are very diverse with people in multiple geographic locations, and we have to.
Orlando Sequera: We have to. Also. That's another in the price of a real factor. That's that's that we get to keep in mind that the culture of our specific location might be. Is it going to be different from a.
Orlando Sequera: The the culture of all of their other team members that we're working with, and that's something that we have to take in. We have to. We have to factor that in.
Orlando Sequera: and it boils down to
Orlando Sequera: some.
Orlando Sequera: We we're gonna go over those those values that we have to follow. It's about respect. It's about understanding and the in using diversity as
Orlando Sequera: as a plus or not as a minus, because that can help us to have a a more enhanced a view and approach
Orlando Sequera: because we have the people that look at things differently. And we that that's gonna help us. They might be looking at things that we are not considering. So that's a that's an actual strength. It's not. It's not a weakness. Okay?
Orlando Sequera: A: so that is important. We we're talking about at the organizational level. We need to understand that as part of your intel work as a project manager, and
Orlando Sequera: because this is going to help us to understand
Orlando Sequera: A. To come up with the right approaches, to start
Orlando Sequera: our projects
Orlando Sequera: with the best, the best way possible, and also to start planning our projects the best way possible. And it's also going to help us to understand what our, what do we need to get the job done in a more efficient way? So really has a major a
Orlando Sequera: a major impact? Yeah, I see some of you mentioned in the values. Yes, being professional, right, respect is crucial, and then everything is built around respect. But yeah, there are multiple values, and that changes from organization to organization. But yeah respect it's a universal value
Orlando Sequera: that that is going to help you to understand
that that
Orlando Sequera: right?
Orlando Sequera: So really, really really important that we understand this. And, as I said before, easier set than done.
Orlando Sequera: This is something that you're not gonna be learning
Orlando Sequera: in
Orlando Sequera: a when you are a
Orlando Sequera: When you're new to an organization. This is not part of their onboarding process. This is not written in a document. It's something that you have to figure out
Orlando Sequera: you. You You can rely on the Pmo. But you're gonna have to talk to people, talk to you, talk to other project managers that have more experience. Talk to a.
Orlando Sequera: To the Pmo. Officers that might be in place.
Orlando Sequera: Talk to your product, Sponsor. If you are assigned to a project right away. When you're new to the organization you have to
Orlando Sequera: do, you have to be proactive. That is key. That is a crucial aspect of being a successful project manager. We have to be proactive. We have to jump on things. No, they're not going to be given to us. We have to get the information. That's what we do. That's
Orlando Sequera: That's how we can be successful. So being proactive. Okay, we to understand the quicker we understand this, the organizational culture, the power relationships.
Orlando Sequera: the risk, tolerance, risk, approach.
Orlando Sequera: and the way change is embrace into your organization. By doing that we're going to be increasing the chances of exponentially. The chances of our projects to be successful.
Orlando Sequera: Right? So a lot of
Orlando Sequera: on written information this is, try more of a more tribal knowledge, more information that is comes with experience. But you need to
Orlando Sequera: a quickly get
Orlando Sequera: get up to speed when it comes to the
Orlando Sequera: organization of culture.
Orlando Sequera: risk, approach.
Orlando Sequera: and the way change is embraced in the organization. Super important.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: the Change management framework.
Orlando Sequera: any organizational change. That is a true statement. This
Orlando Sequera: is going to require
Orlando Sequera: individual change. It starts with the individual. This is just a framework.
Orlando Sequera: A. The At car
Orlando Sequera: framework that allows you. It's. It's basically a model that creates
Orlando Sequera: an internal language for individual change.
Orlando Sequera: and gives
Orlando Sequera: upper management the leaders of the organization a framework for helping people in their organization to embrace
Orlando Sequera: changes, to embrace a more importantly
Orlando Sequera: to adopt those changes, because this
Orlando Sequera: easier set than done. There's a lot of in in many cases where it's it's part of human nature.
Orlando Sequera: We we're, we're going to be. We're resistant to changes in some cases. So organizations
Orlando Sequera: try to follow
Orlando Sequera: more systematic systematic approaches, to facilitate that change to come to first.
Orlando Sequera: and following this model. The atcar model is one way of doing that. It's not the only one, but it's one way of doing that. The a. Stands for awareness.
Orlando Sequera: Why do we need this change? That's the awareness portion, then the desire
Orlando Sequera: to support the change. That's what the d stands for. The K.
Orlando Sequera: Is.
Orlando Sequera: it comes from knowledge
Orlando Sequera: of how to change.
Orlando Sequera: and then the a. Stands for the ability to demonstrate the new skills and behaviors.
Orlando Sequera: and they, and last, but not least, reinforcement. Right? That's what the our stands for. So so do you want? Do you want to reinforce
Orlando Sequera: these changes? So they become permanent over time, and it's not a
Orlando Sequera: a one-time deal. Okay, that's really really really important.
Orlando Sequera: Let me take a look at the questions.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: or some questions from before.
Orlando Sequera: Will it be beneficial to to
Orlando Sequera: proceed at a deeper level for the exam?
Orlando Sequera: Do you have enough with this content? Not not. I'm gonna say No.
Orlando Sequera: that's a question in the Q. A. Would it be beneficial to to it? Proceed at a deeper level for the exam. I'm. Going to say a. I'm going to say no sure answer for that.
Orlando Sequera: Do you have enough
Orlando Sequera: with your with the content that we're going over?
Orlando Sequera: It is a curse, something that will have
Orlando Sequera: scenario questions.
Orlando Sequera: Not necessarily. But you need to understand. This is just a framework for change.
Orlando Sequera: so that'll be my answer to that question.
Orlando Sequera: And again for you to get a better idea. These definitions are not going to be clearly specified in the questions. Go to test, prep and see how those questions are phrased.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. So when when you take practice questions that's going to answer.
Orlando Sequera: that's going to help you
Orlando Sequera: with
Orlando Sequera: with that.
Orlando Sequera: do we need to remember these acronyms for the exam. Well, there are 2 that I would say, some of them. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: that's a question in the Q. And a.
Orlando Sequera: Some of them yes.
Orlando Sequera: like Eef
Orlando Sequera: and opa, and i'll be doing my best in highlighting the ones that you need to remember for the exam.
Orlando Sequera: Okay?
Orlando Sequera: Oh.
Orlando Sequera: some of the recent questions
Orlando Sequera: from before was different. Between that a module center of excellence and a Pmo. Will. Pmo. I think we cover. It supports project management activities and a magical center of excellence. It promotes agile, best practices.
Orlando Sequera: sure examples of portfolio I mentioned. We did that
Orlando Sequera: i'm. Going over the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: So another question about press and value, and I present value again. What you need to know for the exam is that they are just.
Orlando Sequera: They are just
Orlando Sequera: metrics that are used in project selection, criteria. They hire Mpv. And Pv.
Orlando Sequera: The breaks. I have the higher
Orlando Sequera: net person, value person value, or most likely gonna be selected. That's what we need to know for the Pmp. Exam: it's not an accounting exam. It's not a finance exam. It is a project management. Exam.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: There is a question about.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, Can you elaborate on risk tolerance? Absolutely
Orlando Sequera: depending on the industry? I'm going to give you a quick example.
Orlando Sequera: Aerospace.
Orlando Sequera: Human lives are at risk when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to aerospace, when NASA is the best example, and they have learned that by
Orlando Sequera: a learning over over the years, they let's go back to the Apollo program.
Orlando Sequera: a polo one. They had a major accident before they could even launch a rocket, and unfortunately human lives were lost. And then with
Orlando Sequera: another program with the shuttle program.
Orlando Sequera: We had 2 accidents, one going up in 1,986 with a challenger. I'm sorry with the this is the challenge. I always get. Get them confused. I think it was a challenger. Yes. And then coming back with Columbia.
Orlando Sequera: it
Orlando Sequera: sen in 2,003.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to risk tolerance, NASA is risk adverse
Orlando Sequera: Anything that is related to what they do
Orlando Sequera: is a safety. First, it's a control environment.
Orlando Sequera: they are risk. Averse risk has to be mitigated by the way. Risk. Elimination does not exist.
Orlando Sequera: so their level of
Orlando Sequera: the level of threshold when it comes to risk, for NASA is very low.
Orlando Sequera: so it depends on in their in their space industry.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: all their industries
Orlando Sequera: depending on what they're doing. They might have a higher
Orlando Sequera: 3 a
Orlando Sequera: risk tolerance if they're trying to sell a new product. For if it's a messaging application like Whatsapp or a any of these platforms in social media, they are risk the risk. The risk. Tolerance is higher, right.
Orlando Sequera: so they are willing to. They're more aggressive when it comes to that, so their approach to risk
Orlando Sequera: it depends on the industry. It depends on the organization depends on the values.
Orlando Sequera: But we need to understand that. So because that's gonna have an impact on the way, we have to manage our projects so that' that's what we mean by a restart, and we're gonna explain that again when we cover risk. That's an important area of frozen mansion. We're gonna have the chance to go over over risk in detail.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So good question.
Orlando Sequera: I'm reviewing the chat as well.
Orlando Sequera: Can we get the recordings? Yes, we said that at the beginning the please change to your blue box to everyone. So everyone can see your question. Can you get the recording? Absolutely? We said that for study purposes absolutely
Orlando Sequera: is
Orlando Sequera: a I do not see the test prep. In resources in Precipio. It is under practice, not under resources. My apologies, probably. I I said that it was on the reasons No, it's in precipit, but it's under practice.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: And I see a comment here about a risk mitigation, strategy in a space. Yes, but for risk we're going.
Orlando Sequera: Pmi is very specific on what they use. And we're gonna stick to those
Orlando Sequera: a definition because risk management is.
Orlando Sequera: It's a.
Orlando Sequera: Has multiple applications in multiple industries. For example, risk in the financial industry is different from
Orlando Sequera: project management risk. Right? So we're going to. We're going to limit to constrain the scope to what is needed. What is used for
Orlando Sequera: project management for the Pmp. Exempt Cable risk is a vast area and has multiple applications and approaches. But we're going to follow the ones that are needed for the Pmp: Accept.
right?
Orlando Sequera: Okay. So we are ready for our next break. We're going to take a 10 min break. We'll be back
Orlando Sequera: in 10 min. Enjoy your break.
Orlando Sequera: and we're going to continue shortly.
Orlando Sequera: All right, Hopefully you enjoyed your break. We are back
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: trying to answer some of the questions
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: and thank you for your collaboration.
Orlando Sequera: So we are going to
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: go over again about the attendance. There's some important important information in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: Everyone.
Orlando Sequera: as we have said before, everyone should be tracking their time in the attendance tracker.
Orlando Sequera: This is going to be needed. The attendance tracker is going to be need
Orlando Sequera: when
Orlando Sequera: using the certificate request process, so you can get your certificate of completion.
Orlando Sequera: If, for some reason
Orlando Sequera: your attendance is not perfect.
Orlando Sequera: and you can get your certificate, using your self serve option.
Orlando Sequera: which is
Orlando Sequera: only available to perip your users. Then you are going to need
Orlando Sequera: to use the certificate request process to get your certificate of completion.
Orlando Sequera: Per CPU users should always check the self-serve option first
Orlando Sequera: before using the certificate request option that's Why.
Orlando Sequera: this
Orlando Sequera: certainly your attendance tracker is so important. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: And by checking that means
Orlando Sequera: we mean.
Orlando Sequera: after the last session has in
Orlando Sequera: Okay, important, important, important. If you're a per super user you should try to always use a self-serf option to get your certificate of completion. If you are not, then you should use the certificate request option, but in both instances you have to fill out your
Orlando Sequera: attendance tracker. It is important. Okay, it is. It is extremely important.
Orlando Sequera: Right? Track Your time
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: the instructions are part of the document. So let's let's go ahead and read the document All right.
Orlando Sequera: right it. So that was a public service announcement.
Orlando Sequera: and we have it in place.
Orlando Sequera: basically Asa.
Orlando Sequera: as of redundancy just in just for as a backup for for percip users. But
Orlando Sequera: but we it's, and it's always a it is a MOS for non persecuted users. So again, going back about the certificate of completion
Orlando Sequera: if you are a precipitation, you go to self-serf use that option first to get your certificate request, and you're going to do that at the end of the class, but you have to keep your
Orlando Sequera: track, track. Your attendance on a daily basis.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, if you're a a nonprofit user, then you use
Orlando Sequera: your
Orlando Sequera: certificate request option.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So please make sure that you follow that.
Orlando Sequera: All right, let's continue with your with the content.
Orlando Sequera: What are the actions that we can complete to support, change.
Orlando Sequera: And, by the way, here
Orlando Sequera: these actions.
Orlando Sequera: these are those and Don't that
Orlando Sequera: the organization, and in many cases we can implement this approach for our specific projects as project managers.
Orlando Sequera: Some of the do that are really important. We have to
Orlando Sequera: part of what we have to do. We, as as servant leaders, that's a that's a concept that is gonna come to the forefront. We're gonna go over that
Orlando Sequera: later. In the class port. We lead people. We lead our
Orlando Sequera: project team members
Orlando Sequera: lead them to what? To success, to being successful with our project with our projects. Okay, so
Orlando Sequera: we are going to be doing a lot of coaching and part of that coaching is
Orlando Sequera: coaching our co-workers to support our business. Going back to the example that I used a few minutes ago with the
Orlando Sequera: software for the accounting department.
Orlando Sequera: They
Orlando Sequera: No. Some of your team members.
Orlando Sequera: and I have been in that.
Orlando Sequera: It's a true statement.
Orlando Sequera: They might think that what they're doing is not really challenging. It's not a
Orlando Sequera: I I it's not cool just for lack of a better word.
Orlando Sequera: is not?
Orlando Sequera: It's not fancy enough, or it's not challenging enough. Why am I working on this report that is boring, and you might have those one. By working on this they might question the work that is being done. So you always have to
Orlando Sequera: coach them and remind them that there's a reason why the organization is investing money and time and resources on that specific project, because it is tied up to.
Orlando Sequera: That's strategic goal of improving the efficiency of the accounting department and finance by 20% in the next fiscal year. That's why the organisations do that this is important work that the organization wants to
Orlando Sequera: a complete
Orlando Sequera: for the next fiscal year. That's how we can support this for this organization, too.
Orlando Sequera: to to be more efficient and to remain in business. So it's about providing that coaching aspect.
Orlando Sequera: In many cases they don't they do not have access to that bigger picture we do. We have to convey that information to our project team members, and it's about passion. Remember that we are leading them. We're not directing them. They're not. They don't report to us. We're no use in authority. We're using
Orlando Sequera: leadership.
Orlando Sequera: We're using coaching. We're using server leadership.
Orlando Sequera: So they understand why are we? How are we? Is supporting the business with these changes?
Orlando Sequera: A. If
Orlando Sequera: If we are in an organization that is transitioning to an agile mindset and an agile approach.
Orlando Sequera: A
Orlando Sequera: ideally, we have to do as much as possible to enable that agile operating system
Orlando Sequera: that goes with understanding, agile as a discipline, as an approach, and understanding that Agile is not just having the agile ceremonies, and
Orlando Sequera: having a fancy dashboard with all the work that it's been done with the per backlog. That is not that is a part of it. But the more they, but more importantly, it's about an agile mindset embracing change, and how we are
Orlando Sequera: a adopting those principles and understanding those principles, and in those values, and how we can implement.
Orlando Sequera: how can we, tailor that approach to be successful in adapting to changes. That's
Orlando Sequera: a big portion, and not an and and we mean enabled not an agile operating system. So
Orlando Sequera: the organization doesn't become a hindrance to
Orlando Sequera: that a to embrace changes so so we don't have roadblocks within the processes. Easier said than done right. That takes the the agile transformation it can take can take some time. It it. It depends on the level of maturity that you're going to. System has when it comes to agile.
Orlando Sequera: But we have to start at the individual level.
Orlando Sequera: and we can start with a team. Are we going to transform the entire? The entire organization just on our own? No, but that's part of our contribution. We can start working with what we can influence, which is our project team in.
Orlando Sequera: We can facilitate the adoption of that agile mindset, and of course, the the different tools and techniques that come associated with agile. So we can do it. Our at our individual a project level
Orlando Sequera: and another way to support change is.
Orlando Sequera: And do you know this for a fact?
Orlando Sequera: Knowledge is always
Orlando Sequera: changing and evolving. We, in in that means that we have to keep up with current trends.
Orlando Sequera: It's about continuous improvement, and that's where we can leverage lessons. Learn
Orlando Sequera: a and always
Orlando Sequera: try to make sure that we're keeping up with it, with the changes
Orlando Sequera: that are occurring in the industry that are applicable to what we do. That is, continuous improvement.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. So those are the recommended actions.
Orlando Sequera: They no no, or they don't, are.
Orlando Sequera: Do not force these changes, and unfortunately, many organizations.
Orlando Sequera: don't follow this approach. They try to impose. They try to force. They try to a brute force, a change, and that usually has a negative impact.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: it's about consulting it's about a involving people in this
Orlando Sequera: change processes and get their buying and the for them to understand the the rationale or the justification of those changes. And also
Orlando Sequera: another aspect. And this is gonna come. This is gonna be a topic that we're gonna cover in the class later.
Orlando Sequera: It's throughout the week. It's about
Orlando Sequera: conflict management
Orlando Sequera: changes. As we said before, human nature were resistant to change
Orlando Sequera: the I. I am sure that all of you can relate to that
Orlando Sequera: going back to the example of the software for the coming department, not because the stakeholders thing that that is.
Orlando Sequera: that's what we need. We need to automate a few processes. Maybe the people that are working with the current
Orlando Sequera: software. They're not happy with this changes. They don't. They don't wanna they don't want to change they They'd be using that software for 20 years. So if we
Orlando Sequera: alienate.
Orlando Sequera: we ignore those resistors, then
Orlando Sequera: we're gonna be in trouble, because that's where conflict
Orlando Sequera: negative conflict is going to rise, and
Orlando Sequera: that's gonna be
Orlando Sequera: a hindrance to our roadmap to to to our project success. Okay. So we need to address that. We need to. It's about communication. It's about engagement getting by in
Orlando Sequera: providing the information that they need. So they understand the benefits. That's why we work with the benefits management plan. So people understand well by automating an example. Probably mansion plan benefits mentioned plan world. We're going to automate processes that are currently done manually
Orlando Sequera: that are taking days to complete and generate reports, this is going to be automated. This is gonna be the Mo almost in real time that those are. That's part of the information that we can have in benefits matching plan. That's why we created not just because we created to justify a
Orlando Sequera: they the Our project as part of justification, is part of the benefits that coming to the business with the implementation of this project. And that's also gonna help us to address this aspect of
Orlando Sequera: resistors, cause they're gonna they're gonna that's gonna happen. Not everybody is gonna always be a supporter of your project. You might have some or sisters, and you need to address them. It's about communication. It's about engagement. It's not about forcing the change. That is, the worst recipe
Orlando Sequera: a that that's a recipe for destruction. Actually so self-destruction
Orlando Sequera: it is about getting by in
Orlando Sequera: communication engagement. Let them know why you want to complete
Orlando Sequera: that particular project. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right. I will have one to check the
the
Orlando Sequera: I want to check the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: There's a question
Orlando Sequera: in the Q. And a. Section, if I may
Orlando Sequera: in maintenance and operation plan. That's not. That does not have a defined, and
Orlando Sequera: which that's not me the definition of a project. What type of procedures in this? Well, that's
Orlando Sequera: You can answer yourself with the same question that that is, operations that still project management. Right? So do you have. You might have a a functional manager leading that, or a group of people leading that. But it's it's part of operations. You have functional managers and a
Orlando Sequera: upper management working with that maintenance and operation. So functional managers that's going to be the answer to that.
Orlando Sequera: We just talked about an example of a benefits management plan.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: I like to see
Orlando Sequera: Project sponsors. Don't usually involve and consult.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, that if that's the case in your projects, you're in trouble
Orlando Sequera: they should. They are vested in the project. They the biggest advocate that you have in any project is your sponsor. If they're not involved with the project you're in.
Orlando Sequera: I right at right at the gate. Good you you
Orlando Sequera: usually, when it probably gets to a program manager. This is already at the Don't Deal.
Orlando Sequera: It has been selected, if you mean it in that regard and read a question from the Q. A. By the way.
Orlando Sequera: you sure he doesn't feed
Orlando Sequera: all the team members and their directive
Orlando Sequera: buy in any techniques to share how to best cast your product with a positive connotation, but less.
Orlando Sequera: That's what we're trying to to do with Project Management right? It's about building. That is the benefits management plan? That's part of that answer. What are the benefits that come with this project? This is how this project is align with the strategic goals of reduce or increasing the efficiency of the counting department by 20. So that is.
Orlando Sequera: that's partly by him in
Orlando Sequera: by automation. That's just an example. Reports are taking days to generate. Now we can create, generate them in pretty much real time. So that's how you get. Buy in front. You address risk for sisters.
Orlando Sequera: A
Orlando Sequera: another question.
Orlando Sequera: Another question.
Orlando Sequera: If project sponsors have already green, led the project, why is
Orlando Sequera: the owners on the Pm. To support and change to a common level of assistance within the organization. Well.
Orlando Sequera: remember, do you have a product sponsor?
Orlando Sequera: It could be the Director of Finance. But do you have a group of people that are going to be using the software for the accounting department. It's not going to be just him or her. It's gonna be all their people right. So you gotta get their buying and you're gonna get the buying from people from other departments to it. Most likely it's going to be supporting that. Software, so everything that you do has relationship to the other. It it's not a vacuum. It has really. It affects multiple groups of people, and you gotta get their buy in.
Orlando Sequera: When we talk about.
Orlando Sequera: When we talk about a stakeholders, it's going to make a little bit more sense.
Orlando Sequera: Another question: how do you get by in front of sisters. I just mentioned that through communication.
Orlando Sequera: showing them, and like an explain to addressing the question first of all, by understanding their questions.
Orlando Sequera: understanding where they come from, they might have valid points that might help you. You might be missing some
Orlando Sequera: key points. They might help you with that. It's about communication understanding where they're coming from their position, and also making sure that they understand the benefits that come with your project
Orlando Sequera: about co-worker resistance that's outside of the that that's outside of this cover project management. That's not
Orlando Sequera: not project management that work with the functional manager.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: the
Orlando Sequera: Do you have any real work examples. Well, it depends on your project. Projects are different, right? I have
Orlando Sequera: worked in similar products, developing
Orlando Sequera: software for new departments and
Orlando Sequera: 4
Orlando Sequera: departments in the organization and communicate to them the benefits that are associated with this new. So accounting software, you're gonna be able to generate reports
Orlando Sequera: in real time pretty much compared to the 3 days that it's taking you right. Now, if you do that, if you're able to present that information and show them that you're gonna make their lives. Easter. You're gonna get their buy-in
right.
Orlando Sequera: There's a question about.
Orlando Sequera: There is a question.
Orlando Sequera: You see the project sponsor who does a price selection? No. Usually you have a steering committee, a a group of people. It's usually a group of people, opera management opera management that make that decision
Orlando Sequera: Directors
Orlando Sequera: like. So it depends on the organization, but it's usually a group of people.
Orlando Sequera: The project sponsor is the main advocate for that project. Someone that is fast on the project was to make sure they has authority, Someone at that label from upper management as as
Orlando Sequera: high level of a 30, and it's going to be the best advocate for the project, and you need to build a relationship with that product. Sponsor it's gonna be a sort. Her intention for that project to be successful. For example, for the accounting software.
Orlando Sequera: a project.
Orlando Sequera: an example of a sponsor, could be the director of accounting
Orlando Sequera: like that. That could be an example
Orlando Sequera: so
Orlando Sequera: want to make sure this pro gets successful. At least
Orlando Sequera: their name associated with that project, so build that relationship with him on her
Orlando Sequera: as quickly as possible, and leverage their authority, leverage their help, leverage leverage their knowledge
Orlando Sequera: if they're investing in the project, they want this product to be successful, so work with your sponsor. It's a key stakeholder. By the way.
let me see.
So this is
Orlando Sequera: answered.
Orlando Sequera: Test Prep. 21.
Orlando Sequera: There's a question about which desperate the Mp. 2,021.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, the chat is on post.
Orlando Sequera: Could the price sponsor be external in some cases? Yes, but it depends on the organization. You need to find out who the sponsor is. It's part of your job as a Pm. It changes from organization to organization, from industry to industry, but it's part. Your job to understand who the sponsor is.
Orlando Sequera: You need to work, and understanding that it's not. If if there's a pmo in some cases, yeah, it's going to be given to you.
Orlando Sequera: You gotta do the into work. You're gonna do the leg work. Okay, you gotta do the network.
Orlando Sequera: Can you have multiple sponsors in some cases yes.
Orlando Sequera: not common. I'm going to say it's not common. It's usually one individual.
Orlando Sequera: but
Orlando Sequera: it it is, it is possible.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: How can we
Orlando Sequera: plan for change.
Orlando Sequera: and remember that we went to. We want to make sure that these changes are not
Orlando Sequera: for that particular moment. We want to changes to be a to be permanent.
Orlando Sequera: So we have to plan for that. So
Orlando Sequera: we need to have this plan for change change implementation. So you can
Orlando Sequera: for your for implementing the project and managing the change that is coming associated with our project.
So
Orlando Sequera: we might have
Orlando Sequera: great projects
Orlando Sequera: that are successfully planned for the sign implemented and delivered.
Orlando Sequera: but they can fail
Orlando Sequera: in execution
Orlando Sequera: if we do not date. If we do not take this into account. If we don't plan for change, the implementation is gonna fail. So we have to.
Orlando Sequera: When we, When what we mean by planning for change, we to understand what about knowledge transfer, how we're going to transfer that knowledge from the project team to the people that are going to be using the product service of result. The accounting, software for example.
Orlando Sequera: the people that are going to be working with that in
Orlando Sequera: with that new software.
Orlando Sequera: How are we going to transfer that knowledge that involves documentation
Orlando Sequera: that involves a training that we have to provide. We have to coordinate that training with them. We also have to.
Orlando Sequera: They perform all the transfer with the
Orlando Sequera: with another department within the organization, because chances are that we're not going to be supporting
Orlando Sequera: any problems. There's gonna be it. It support help, desk people. They're the ones that are gonna be supporting the accounting users with the software if they have any promise. So we have to. We have to perform some knowledge, transfer activities with those that are gonna be supporting
Orlando Sequera: the actual application in this case. Once we deploy the software for the accounting department, and they might also need to go for training, right? So it's a lot of it's it's a lot of
Orlando Sequera: coordination that needs to happen is not just about the word that needs to be done for the project. It's also about
Orlando Sequera: planning for that change and implementing that change that comes with our project right? The change that comes with our software for that kind of department. So it starts with
Orlando Sequera: a survey to understand how people are feeling. This is how you're gonna find out who those resistors are.
Orlando Sequera: How are they feeling about the the the project then
Orlando Sequera: create a campaign to familiarize people with changes, and mainly showing them the benefits that come with this new software, your
Orlando Sequera: your your reports are gonna be able to be generated quicker. You can create users, and you can in a in a more efficient way, or you don't need to have a special login or a create a new account. This is this: software has single sign on.
Orlando Sequera: for example, right? So what are they? Benefits that come associated with this change? That's the informational campaign, and also in some cases.
Orlando Sequera: No. In some cases, in all cases you have to be transparent about some potential effects of the changes. Perhaps there was a change in in a regulation or a law.
Orlando Sequera: or a that is.
Orlando Sequera: that is related to the accounting guidelines that the organization is following. And now we have to collect this or track this information in a different way.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. So
Orlando Sequera: if that's the case. Then
Orlando Sequera: we need to make sure that
Orlando Sequera: our users understand
Orlando Sequera: stakeholders understand
Orlando Sequera: the impact of those changes that we that have been implemented in this a new accounting software, for example, and then
Orlando Sequera: make sure that you have a plan for that implementation. That's what we call a rollout plan
Orlando Sequera: that is important to have in place because it covers all that knowledge, transfer activities, a training and getting people ready and getting the environment ready, making sure that your environment is ready, so you can then implement and successfully transition your project into production. So you have to plan for that change. So it's not just the work that has been done with the project. So so how we're going to implement that into a production, so it becomes operational.
Orlando Sequera: I'm going to review.
Orlando Sequera: There's also important information. Kara, be, please check the chat Carl is putting in important information in the chat. Please make sure that you review that
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: Can. You have 2 Pm. On a project.
Orlando Sequera: Normally? No, no. I'm gonna say no.
Orlando Sequera: Yeah one. It's your project.
Orlando Sequera: You have one Pm.
Orlando Sequera: Can you work with a program manager? Yes, but
Orlando Sequera: your project.
Orlando Sequera: and if you have questions of our resources, please make sure that you use the Q. A. For that. Remember what we said. Right.
Orlando Sequera: Let's keep the chat for content related questions
Orlando Sequera: and use the Q. And a.
Orlando Sequera: For resource related questions. But there's some information. That's why we have the videos always refer to the videos that's gonna help you answer some of the questions that you have about the resources.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: Let me review
Orlando Sequera: questions.
Orlando Sequera: Russian approach to mark in order to deliver it sooner. But in some cases it if that's what's going to have value going back to value. That's what needs to be done. It's not up to us. It's up to the stakeholders. We're not there to question them. We're there to support them, and to implement these changes. If that's what's going to drive value. That's what we do.
A.
All right.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: there's another question. That's appropriate to have resources assigned to. We call the project.
Orlando Sequera: I do not know how you can complete a project without resources.
Orlando Sequera: so you need resources for your project.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: There's a question which in the Q. A. The roller plan is not an independent within the project management plan. When we talk about the procedure plan, we it's. It's a big umbrella
Orlando Sequera: that covers multiple areas of your project. But the Rollo plan is not one of those components. That's what they mean by that last
Orlando Sequera: bullet point.
Orlando Sequera: Reviewing the
Orlando Sequera: Q. A. Is the exam, Continental and current? The answer is, Yes.
Orlando Sequera: capital with capital letters. Yes, yes, yes, yes.
Orlando Sequera: asked. We have set before multiple times.
Orlando Sequera: It is the the PIN book is a different cycle. The Exam content outline outline for the Pmp.
Orlando Sequera: A
Orlando Sequera: version that is in place at 2021. Yes, it is up to date.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: I
Orlando Sequera: would like to continue with this
Orlando Sequera: topic of organizational transformation
Orlando Sequera: that Pmi has put in place.
Orlando Sequera: They are trying to help organizations to become smarter
Orlando Sequera: about this.
Orlando Sequera: the importance of a bridging the gap
Orlando Sequera: between strategy and execution, because
Orlando Sequera: for over the years they have learned that there's there's a there. There was a a widening gap between what
Orlando Sequera: up a organizations wanted to implement
Orlando Sequera: and what was actually being implemented. So there was a gap between their strategy, and then the way they were executing those strategies. So, but they they given them
Orlando Sequera: access to multiple resources. So that's where it these brighteline transformation.
Orlando Sequera: a compass is helping. It helps organization
Orlando Sequera: E to understand, to be able to articulate the vision and strategic objectives, to understand customer insights and global trends. And this is across functional
Orlando Sequera: operating system, the big that can be applied to any industry. It's basically giving them a roadmap.
Orlando Sequera: So so they so they can narrow that gap between their strategy and their actual execution at the Enterprise level change. Okay, so that's what the bright line initiative comes into play. That's something that Pmi has worked on to provide
Orlando Sequera: another research for organizations to be successful with that and the and he covers it. He has also
Orlando Sequera: a a similar framework to add card, but it's what they call inside out employee transformation.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: we have been talking about support and organizational change.
Orlando Sequera: We went over
Orlando Sequera: assessing organization of culture. And this is how it is tied up to the exam Content outline.
Orlando Sequera: We evaluated the impact of your organization, change to project and
Orlando Sequera: determine the record actions.
Orlando Sequera: And also we went over the impact of the project to the organization and
Orlando Sequera: how to be able to determine the require actions. That's a
Orlando Sequera: that's an overview of what we cover a summary of what we just cover.
Orlando Sequera: and that comes from the exam content out like.
Orlando Sequera: Now we're going to talk about project governance.
Orlando Sequera: This is
Orlando Sequera: something that
Orlando Sequera: experience project managers are very familiar with.
Orlando Sequera: It is extremely important for any project manager to understand how your project is going to be supported by the organization.
Orlando Sequera: because every single, every single organization has a government framework.
Orlando Sequera: and you need to understand that it's gonna have implications on that value delivery that we mentioned that we have mentioned before. It is extremely important for you to understand that. Okay. I know that
Orlando Sequera: some of you before
Orlando Sequera: this, if especially if you're new to project management.
Orlando Sequera: you might not be familiar with the governance that much. But this is something that is part of that organizational environment.
Orlando Sequera: Projects are gonna have
Orlando Sequera: a a level of governance, and it's gonna change from industry to industry.
Orlando Sequera: from organization to organizations. Some organizations have a higher level of scrutiny when it comes to project governance, and and some industries have a high level of of scrutiny when it comes to Co. To governance as well. But this is important to understand and put. Every single project is going to be governed.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: I. I don't there's gonna be a level of governance applied to every single project. It's something that we need to to understand. And what do we mean by Project Governance? You might be wondering what is that?
Orlando Sequera: Well, project governments. If
Orlando Sequera: about oversight, it's an oversight
Orlando Sequera: function
Orlando Sequera: that all organizations have.
Orlando Sequera: and he basically covers all the functions, the processes that are going to guide
Orlando Sequera: your project management activities.
Orlando Sequera: So we can then produce that unique product service of result that we intend to produce with our project
Orlando Sequera: that in essence is going to meet those organizational, strategic and operational goals. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: and maybe wondering what? Why? Why do we want to have a governance model in place to my Project governance model in place because
Orlando Sequera: it gives us a single point of accountability, and it also help it's gonna help us to understand the project life cycle.
Orlando Sequera: It. It helps with issue management and resolution in your projects. In some cases you're going to have to escalate
Orlando Sequera: issues
Orlando Sequera: and you're gonna need help from other people. But how do we do that? The answer comes from Project Governance. That's why this is so important. And also it's gonna help you to in in understanding how
Orlando Sequera: to this tribute. Information about your project and clear communication guidelines is tied up to that. We do have specific. We plan for communication plan for communications, but project. Governance also has an input when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: a product, communication and information distribution. And it really
Orlando Sequera: since, if you ask me, okay, go.
Orlando Sequera: that's
Orlando Sequera: we get from private governance. Well, it's going to outline the roles with the levels of with the levels of authority, the relationships and the responsibility amongst the project stakeholders
Orlando Sequera: so really clear guideline when it comes to Who's who there
Orlando Sequera: Their roles? What are their responsibilities? Where their relationships
Orlando Sequera: a amongst those
Orlando Sequera: stakeholders for our project
Orlando Sequera: so really important. It's really important for us to understand. And as I mentioned before, these changes from organization to organization, and it can change even from project to project, depending on what it is.
Orlando Sequera: what that you're trying to produce with your project, and it definitely changes from industry to industry. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: But we're always going to have
Orlando Sequera: governments in place, and you might be wondering
Orlando Sequera: how much governance is is needed. Right?
Orlando Sequera: But one thing to keep in mind. Governance is gonna be in place even before you begin working in your project.
Orlando Sequera: It might come from the Pmo. If it's a directive pmo. Or it's going to be aligned
Orlando Sequera: with the actual governance policies of the organization.
Orlando Sequera: As a Pm. You have to adjust the governance structure for an individual project. This is going to be based on constraints and
Orlando Sequera: the project oversight requirements. This comes from the organization also the industry. That's why we have to pay attention to that landscape.
Orlando Sequera: That is the organization, that ecosystem.
Orlando Sequera: we to understand that it it covers a internal factors and external factors.
Orlando Sequera: and another in many cases, in many cases, not in every single case. But in many cases another huge oversight
Orlando Sequera: aspect of a government for is budget.
Orlando Sequera: What happens when the costs exceed the benefits or the defined tolerances are
Orlando Sequera: actually it. The thresholds that you have for tolerance is are exceeded. What happens in those situations, so that's part of governance, and by that I mean well, we, the threshold is we can it it? It's. Okay. If we are. This is just an example
Orlando Sequera: plus or minus a 5%. Or if we are 5% over. Budget. It's okay. We don't have to. We we don't have to correct the the performance. We don't have to be in the performance back and track. But if we start
Orlando Sequera: spending more than 5, we're spending 10%. We're able to determine that using earn value and environment management, what happens there? Right. So that's why we need to have governance in place. It's gonna have the answer to that. What do we do in that situation? So
Orlando Sequera: A. And it's basically that
Orlando Sequera: is is part of it's a it's a big component of
Orlando Sequera: the
Orlando Sequera: of course the prevention plan will be the best analogy. But what do we do if
Orlando Sequera: full books that we have to, for one of the rules that we have to follow for for a project when we, when we are a.
Orlando Sequera: When we're experiencing situations in our projects, not everything is gonna go according to plan that never happens. That never happens. So what do we do in those situations.
Orlando Sequera: Part of the answers are gonna come from the project governance. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: They give you guidelines.
Orlando Sequera: and when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: multiple aspects. They give you guidance about changes, how changes are going to be implemented there.
Orlando Sequera: There are guidelines about communication, about documentation, how decisions are going to be made
Orlando Sequera: how to
Orlando Sequera: make sure that
Orlando Sequera: your internal stakeholders are aligned with the requirements for the project, how the changes are going to be reviewed and approved.
Orlando Sequera: How risk an issue. Notification, Escalation of resolution is performed.
Orlando Sequera: stage gate, or face reviews. How are they conducted?
Orlando Sequera: All that is tied up to Guy to to governance? How we align project governance in organizations, strategy.
Orlando Sequera: the project, life, cycle and the development approach. Remember
Orlando Sequera: adaptive, predictive or hybrid.
Orlando Sequera: The project or organizational chart with roles also is a component of the governance. What is the project? Success criteria
Orlando Sequera: and the liberal acceptance criteria and the the the relationships between the product team, different organizational groups and external stakeholders, all those are components of for their governance.
Orlando Sequera: It is extremely extremely important to
Orlando Sequera: make sure that we understand it.
Orlando Sequera: There's a question in
Orlando Sequera: the Q. A. That I would like to address how how you deal with an organization with any government there's gonna be some I haven't seen that yet there's going to be
Orlando Sequera: some level of government.
Orlando Sequera: even if it's a startup. You're gonna have one of the the 3 guys that started the company that someone is going to make the decisions, and that's governance. That's governance. You can just Nobody's gonna give you a blend check
Orlando Sequera: a to work on the project without asking you questions or giving you some guidance. There's gonna be some type of governance, so that is
Orlando Sequera: that it? It? It might be very simple, or it might be very complex, as we see here, but there is going to be some type of governance.
Orlando Sequera: Another question in the Q. A. Who usually initiates further governance. As we said before, governments probably is. Ch chances are most likely it's gonna be in place before you start working on your project. So this is something that you. This is information that you have to
Orlando Sequera: find out to understand. And this is part of your job as a project manager to understand the level of governance that is applicable to your projects. But that's gonna be in place. Okay, already. You don't star that. It's.
Orlando Sequera: It's going to be in place already.
What other question
Orlando Sequera: is project governance similar to product controls in a way? Yes.
Orlando Sequera: Are there any examples of governance, frameworks, functions, or processes with? I'm sure that you can look for those.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: again they change from organizations to organization, from industry to industry. They
Orlando Sequera: any organization that works with the Federal government, the Us. Very complex. The the
Orlando Sequera: both of these components are applicable to the level of governance and the depending on what it is to a industries like aerospace. They're very they. They have a very complex
Orlando Sequera: type of governance that is applicable not to. If you're a
Orlando Sequera: contractor
Orlando Sequera: with a government, then a multiple levels of governance, not just your own internal organization, but you do. You need to also follow the governance model of
Orlando Sequera: your customer organization? So it is that is important to understand.
Right?
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Project. Go. Another question. Probably governance starts with stage it. It was in place before you started with your project. Chances are so. It was already in place. Just gotta make sure that you understand it, and you meet it. You meet that criteria. You follow those processes.
Orlando Sequera: It was already in place, but you gotta make sure that you follow it.
Orlando Sequera: It's it's safe. Another question. Is it safe to say that a project is managed within the governance photo.
Orlando Sequera: It is safe to say that a project should must be managed within the governance model. Yes, so
Orlando Sequera: yes, it is safe to say that project is managed within the governance model. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: Another question. What is the difference between iterative and incremental approaching project governance?
Orlando Sequera: This has nothing to do with the type of approach that you're following for your projects, regardless of the approach this has to be followed. They have.
yeah.
Orlando Sequera: regardless of the approach that you followed, your project has to meet this th, the the model for the the project governance model that is in place for the organization has nothing to do with the approach.
Okay
Orlando Sequera: will be Part is will be part of the product as well. It's more of a processes and components and a criteria. It's not about people so about processes that you have to meet.
Orlando Sequera: It's not about people.
All right.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Governance. When it comes to adaptive projects. So.
Orlando Sequera: regardless of the approach
Orlando Sequera: we are going to follow governments in this case. This is the example, for it's a nice segue to that question.
Orlando Sequera: What about adaptive projects? Do we follow governments? Yes.
Orlando Sequera: it but they are. It's about.
Orlando Sequera: They can document outputs and expectations. Remember that we're following that incremental and iterative approach.
Orlando Sequera: They can help to provide a a view, a clear view for the status by define iteration, spring expectations and outputs. What we
Orlando Sequera: define expectations on those iterations right? What we're trying to produce
Orlando Sequera: that has to be defined clearly. We're going to produce this
Orlando Sequera: re monthly sales report
Orlando Sequera: for the accounting software that has to be. That's what we mean by define
Orlando Sequera: a iteration or spring expectations.
Orlando Sequera: and it's going to be tied up to specific dates. So in this iteration that is, 2 weeks. At the end of the 2 weeks we're going to get this
Orlando Sequera: monthly sales report.
Orlando Sequera: and it helps us with real time monitoring the project output what we are producing. Comp.
Orlando Sequera: A
Orlando Sequera: throughout the iteration. We're gonna have some coordination meetings that are gonna help us to monitor that the completion of those
Orlando Sequera: project output in real time. So
Orlando Sequera: project governance. What we're trying to say here is that they should not become a hindrance to the project work. It's actually the opposite. Effective governance
Orlando Sequera: should be applied
Orlando Sequera: based
Orlando Sequera: on the approach that you are following.
Orlando Sequera: you still going to be governed regardless of the approach, as I said, for
Orlando Sequera: this governance has to be, have cannot become a hindrance
Orlando Sequera: to your project. It it has to be the opposite. It has to enable the project to be successful. You're still going to be governed. But you have to be governed in a way that is going to be successful, and this is a guideline for projects that are a done following another approach.
Orlando Sequera: But if we are following a predictive approach.
Orlando Sequera: you can also have
Orlando Sequera: something that is called. You can have a governance port.
Orlando Sequera: a, or steering committee, or project port. They're the ones that are going to be a providing that oversight. I'm going to make the decisions.
Orlando Sequera: and what they do is
Orlando Sequera: they include key stakeholders
Orlando Sequera: upper management, and they're going to be reviewing the deliverables that are being produced, and they're going to be. They're going to give guidance for
Orlando Sequera: project decisions, so
Orlando Sequera: that many organizations have a steering committee in place. They have an actual.
Orlando Sequera: and they also have
Orlando Sequera: steering committee or governance Board. Hmm. Different names.
A.
Orlando Sequera: There's a question in the chat. What is the difference between iteration and spring? There's no difference between iteration and iteration is the generic term.
Orlando Sequera: and sprint is specific to scrum.
Orlando Sequera: but not all agile is crumb.
Orlando Sequera: So the generic term for iteration for sprint is iteration, but in essence they are the same thing.
That's
Orlando Sequera: That's what we mean by that.
Orlando Sequera: What a Pm. Or it should look like. It depends on the industry and depends on the organization that there's not really right or wrong
Orlando Sequera: way to have a. A.
Orlando Sequera: A project management organization.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: There's a question in the Q. And a.
Orlando Sequera: If the Exam. Asks what is the proper governance for a project that
Orlando Sequera: it's not going to be the type of questions that you're going to be facing in your Pmp. Exam. I can tell you that right on the right. So, starting with the wrong assumption, the type of questions are
Orlando Sequera: they're going to give you
Orlando Sequera: a specific scenario.
Orlando Sequera: A. In this particular project. We are very familiar with the scope. We have done it before we're building a a new facility for research and development. And
Orlando Sequera: right now our we are.
Orlando Sequera: We have a Cpi, a cost performance, index of 0 point 1, and we have a a scale performance index of 0 point 2. What can you tell about that project?
Orlando Sequera: Those are the type of questions that you're going to be getting scenario based. They're not going to be about specific.
Orlando Sequera: The questions are gonna be, what did you do first? What do you do?
Orlando Sequera: What should you do? They're gonna be keywords in the question they're about. They they're about the scenarios that those are not. That's not the type of question that you're gonna be getting into your Pmp: exempt. So again, to really get familiarized with type of questions. Go to test, prep, and review, test, prep on their practice in percipio. So you can get a better
Orlando Sequera: idea of the type of questions that you're going to be facing the Pmp. Exam. They are not about definitions
Orlando Sequera: when it but of course, to answer the scenario based questions we need to know the definitions
right.
Orlando Sequera: A governance, as I mentioned before, is tied up to a 30.
Orlando Sequera: They are.
Orlando Sequera: The governance is gonna
Orlando Sequera: help us to understand. When do we have to escalate an issue? We don't understand. When do we have to escalate nature? Ideally
Orlando Sequera: we should try to solve as much as possible here.
Orlando Sequera: and for the Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: Try to always look for an answer
Orlando Sequera: that
Orlando Sequera: it's something that you can do as a project manager with the project team. So what i'm trying to say is that the solutions to the problems
Orlando Sequera: that are
Orlando Sequera: express in those scenario based questions with your Pmp. Exam. The right answer is going to be most of the right answers. Not all of them, but most of them are gonna be right here within the project team. There's gonna be something
Orlando Sequera: that you can do
Orlando Sequera: to solve the problem. Usually escalation is not the right answer.
Orlando Sequera: I'm. And i'm gonna say it again. Usually, Usually i'm not saying
Orlando Sequera: that
Orlando Sequera: escalation is always the wrong answer. I'm saying, Usually escalation is not the right answer, but in some specific cases escalation is the right answer.
Orlando Sequera: Because escalation is is what you need to do when your level of a 30, when the situation
Orlando Sequera: is outside of
Orlando Sequera: the level of authority that you have for your project. For example, i'm going to give you a specific example that is going to help help you to understand that situation.
Orlando Sequera: And this happened to me.
Orlando Sequera: I was working in an automation project. We were
Orlando Sequera: updating network access points for a manufacturing facility
Orlando Sequera: in South Florida
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: this manufacturer facility.
Orlando Sequera: They made They it's a dental implement manufacturing facility
Orlando Sequera: here in the Us.
Orlando Sequera: They are regulated by the food and drug administration.
Orlando Sequera: That is, the Federal Government entity that regulates that industry the FDA for food and drug administration.
Orlando Sequera: and we were working in the shop for replacing
Orlando Sequera: our
Orlando Sequera: network at this point, and we were performing some testing, and we were working with some of the operators, and all of a sudden we had the visit of these people that first time that I saw them in the shop floor, and they were FDA inspectors.
Orlando Sequera: and they told us to stop operations because they were gonna conduct and audit.
Orlando Sequera: So in that specific situation, and we
Orlando Sequera: we were working on a project. And
Orlando Sequera: this is an FDA inspector.
Orlando Sequera: Tell us that we have to stop operations. We have to stop work basically because they're gonna conduct that and not it a random at it, and they have the right to do that.
Orlando Sequera: I didn't have. I was a project manager. I didn't have the 30 to tell them. No.
Orlando Sequera: Mister Inspector, you cannot do that because you are going
Orlando Sequera: a do you? You're going to have a do you come to a negatively impact
Orlando Sequera: the schedule of my project. If we don't complete this activities today, we're gonna be late.
Orlando Sequera: We're not going to be able to meet schedule. No, I I I don't have the 30 to do that. That's capable
Orlando Sequera: that is above that is, up here.
Orlando Sequera: That's case my level of authority. So in that case I had to escalate. I had to call my sponsor
Orlando Sequera: and communicate with key stakeholders
Orlando Sequera: to
Orlando Sequera: provide them
Orlando Sequera: to let them know that this was the situation.
Orlando Sequera: and that to for them to help me with with the rest, with the resolution, with the course of action, to address the situation.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: E. That was outside of my level of authority. I had to escalate in that situation. That might be the case. So pay attention. That's why so important to pay attention to the level of authority that you have
Orlando Sequera: in your project. And this situation is this something that I can address
Orlando Sequera: unsolved within the team? Yes, do it. But if it's something that is outside of your authority, I could.
Orlando Sequera: for example, I I wish I could to tell an Fd. Inspector. No.
Orlando Sequera: we can stop operation. We gotta keep working. Otherwise we're not going to meet scheduling.
Orlando Sequera: No, so
Orlando Sequera: th the. But in most cases the right answer for the Pmp. Exam. Is going to be down here. It's going to be within the project team. So please remember that. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: please remember that.
And
Orlando Sequera: in government for governance. You're going to have a lot of opa. I see a question in the Q. A. About
Orlando Sequera: a governance and opa, and ef no, it's, it's gonna be, it's gonna be a a multiple opa that you have to review.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: there's another question. How's the level of tutorials? Define a game that changes from industry to industry. You need to know that that's part of your job as a Pm. You need to understand
Orlando Sequera: the type of that's why you need to understand the type of organizational structure. Is this a functional organization? Is it a matrix based organization? It's a project ties. It comes from there. We cover that. So remember that you need to. You need to do your leg work. It's not going to it's not going to be given to you.
Orlando Sequera: So that's gonna dictate the level of authority that you have pay attention to the type of struct
Orlando Sequera: to organ the type of organizational structure that you have in the organization. That's why you need to understand that organizational culture.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: then.
Orlando Sequera: But for the exam, as I mentioned, key takeaway from here is that most of the answers are going to be within
Orlando Sequera: your level of authority for you to solve it with a project team. Okay. But if it's outside of this, then you have to escalate.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So most of them are gonna be within the threshold, and you need to work with the team to find the resolution. Most of the Pmp. Answers. Correct answers are gonna be under that second bullet.
Orlando Sequera: Where is the threshold in the kid on the graph?
Orlando Sequera: It's the same as the level of tolerance.
All right.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: And let's take a look at the governance and life cycles
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: governing systems. They work along alongside the value delivery system.
Orlando Sequera: they which is a for their life cycle. And
Orlando Sequera: why? Because we want to have. We want to be able to enhance
Orlando Sequera: those smooth workflows. Do you want to be able to manage issues and support that decision? Making
Orlando Sequera: value delivery
Orlando Sequera: as a product of the life cycle?
Orlando Sequera: It that is in predictive right.
Orlando Sequera: And but if we're following a module approach value, delivery is embedded in the life cycle.
Orlando Sequera: so value delivery is a product of the life cycle in predictive, but value delivery is going to be embedded in your agile a life cycle. So
Orlando Sequera: there is a principle, and this comes from your seventh edition recognize and evaluate and respond to systems interactions.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: this is this is important because it shows the potential relationship between value delivery and the type of life cycle that you're using for your project
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to checkpoints
Orlando Sequera: for
Orlando Sequera: your project
Orlando Sequera: depending on the approach that you're following. The checkpoints are also known as Face Gates. Most some of you might know them as face gates
Orlando Sequera: when it comes. If we're following a predictive approach, we're usually we're going to divide the work into faces.
Orlando Sequera: And at the end of each face we're going to review what we produce in that face
Orlando Sequera: and that review has multiple names. Make sure that you get familiarized with those names because they can.
Orlando Sequera: They can ask you in the exam. They can use different terminology, but they refer to the same thing that you're gonna start learning that in the Pmp. Content we have multiple names for the same thing. So this is one example. These review. They say gates reviews. They're also known as governance gates.
Orlando Sequera: They're also known as skill points when you might be under a kill point. Why kill point? Because
Orlando Sequera: some cases this can drive termination.
Orlando Sequera: The the project is terminated at the end of this face that happens. That's why they use
Orlando Sequera: kill, point, or in some cases they call it toll gate.
Orlando Sequera: but they all the same, it's that review that happens at the end of the face.
Orlando Sequera: And what happens here on their predictive is at this
Orlando Sequera: states reviews or face gates.
Orlando Sequera: What we try
Orlando Sequera: to decide, if
Orlando Sequera: can we continue to the next phase? Yes or no?
Orlando Sequera: And if the answer is, No, that's usually a kill point.
Orlando Sequera: Can we continue with modifications? Or is this the end of the project or program? That's what happens at the end. If we're following a predictive
Orlando Sequera: life cycle right at the end of each phase. If we're following an adaptive or agile life cycle.
Orlando Sequera: we divide the work, not interfaces, got into releases any that release.
Orlando Sequera: We group a release is a group of multiple
Orlando Sequera: iterations or sprints
Orlando Sequera: in which we combine functionality. Usually functionality that is related.
Orlando Sequera: so we can then
Orlando Sequera: release it together into production. An example of Imagine if we're trying to develop
Orlando Sequera: a new messaging application that will compete with Whatsapp or telegram. Right messaging application.
Orlando Sequera: A. Probably most of you I want. I want to. I want to think that all of you know about Whatsapp right, that is, one by Facebook. So you can send messages to groups and individuals.
Orlando Sequera: So let's assume for a minute that that's where we are. We're working on a project related to Whatsapp.
Orlando Sequera: and we have been able to determine that for our customers their main concern right now is about security.
Orlando Sequera: Our customers. Are
Orlando Sequera: they really want to make sure that their information is protected, and that Whatsapp is a secure, mobile application. So
Orlando Sequera: chances are that in our project all the functionality associated with security is gonna move to the forefront. It's gonna to move to the top of the pile that we call product backlog, by the way, so it it's gonna be the that's the priority right now. So we can group functionality associated with security.
Orlando Sequera: Maybe it's gonna take us more than one iteration, because, remember, iteration in average is going to be 2 weeks anywhere between one week to 4 weeks. But
Orlando Sequera: most organizations use that duration of 2 weeks. So what organizations do when it comes to releases. They group
Orlando Sequera: multiple iterations or sprints associated in this example to security.
Orlando Sequera: and once that functionality is complete, they're going to release it together
Orlando Sequera: to production. That's what we mean. Splitting the work into releases this strategic grouping of similar functionality, not necessarily similar, but functionality. That is
Orlando Sequera: the highest priority for our stakeholders. Okay, for
Orlando Sequera: so that's it's a it's a it's a way to group it together. So it gets released at the same time
Orlando Sequera: the reviews are going to be done. Not at the end of each face. They're going to be done more often at the end of each print. We're going to do the same thing the same
Orlando Sequera: the same thing that we do with the face gate. We're going to do it with
Orlando Sequera: in agile. But at the end of each iteration Every 2 weeks. We're going to have a review, and and we're going to do exactly the same. We're gonna make this issue, can we? When I gather feedback from our from our stakeholders? We're gonna go over? Do we have to modify? Do we have to make adjustments?
Orlando Sequera: A. What can we do to improve value? It's about adding value right?
Orlando Sequera: But we do exactly the same thing, but we do it more often. We do it more often than we do it in predictive from we still follow the same approach, and we're going to continue
Orlando Sequera: until
Orlando Sequera: we meet.
Orlando Sequera: You might, you might be thinking so. It's agile, never ending. No, no, no, no! We're going to continue until we meet the acceptance criteria of the customer.
Orlando Sequera: and when the acceptance criterion definition of Don
Orlando Sequera: of the customer is satisfied, or when the actual.
Orlando Sequera: the the actual project is completed. Usually we have in agile a ceiling for budget and a sailing for schedule.
Orlando Sequera: That's usually how it happens. But then the scope is what's really changing. The scope is not fixed. The scope is variable, but you usually have a a fixed duration and a fixed budget that that's how it's done.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: A
Orlando Sequera: is adaptive tickle, typically found with tech project, not necessarily at the agile or adaptive is typically found also in marketing. It's widely used in marketing. They want to come up with a new marketing campaign to be more efficient, based on customer preferences.
Orlando Sequera: Marketing. They use agile left and right. So multiple industries you even find that in construction nowadays agile, is used in virtually every single industry out there
Orlando Sequera: A. Right. Now.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. And what about relationships between those project faces.
Orlando Sequera: faces? They can produce one or more deliverables.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: usually and this is for predictive right? The outputs from one face or generally inputs to the next phase.
Orlando Sequera: and they can have sequential or overlapping relationships. So in phase one. Imagine. If we're building a house.
Orlando Sequera: we can
Orlando Sequera: we in phase one. We completed the structure, for example, phase 2. We can complete the roof and phase 3. We can complete the the
Orlando Sequera: the the landscaping. We can define that, and we're gonna it so we can group it that way. It's a sequential grouping, logical following a following logical relationship, so we can be as efficient as possible without resources. So that's why we use
Orlando Sequera: Project face relationship. We want to be as efficient as possible with the way it we use our resources. Okay, and that's what we get from these project faces relationships
Orlando Sequera: in this case.
Orlando Sequera: this specific graphic here. What we're showing is the face one and face 2 are sequential. We have to complete face one. Then we have a review or face gate, and then we start working on face 2, but
Orlando Sequera: phase 3 and phase 2 are overlapping.
Orlando Sequera: and that can perfectly happen. This
Orlando Sequera: a it. It. It works in some cases we gotta take a look at the the activities that work that we are working on, but it is
Orlando Sequera: perfectly done. It changes from project to project. But you can have sequential relationships or overlapping relationships.
Orlando Sequera: and when it comes to applying a governance to predict the project faces.
Orlando Sequera: and going back to that example, with the shop industries
Orlando Sequera: we have to
Orlando Sequera: at the beginning of each phase we have to validate project assumptions. We assume that supplier a was going to deliver on time. Is that still the case, or are they
Orlando Sequera: in a different posture? Right now?
Orlando Sequera: We gotta take a look at risks.
Orlando Sequera: and we have to be able to provide a detailed explanation of the deliverables that we're going to produce with our with our faces
Orlando Sequera: at the end. We're gonna look at what we produce with our work in that phase.
Orlando Sequera: and we have to review, make sure that those deliverables that were produced are completed and are accepted
Orlando Sequera: in many cases. In many cases this goes back to some of the questions that some of you have about project Termination.
Orlando Sequera: If they are huge risks that are encountered
Orlando Sequera: at
Orlando Sequera: those face gates the decision can be made a of, terminated the project. That's one way of closing a project right? It's not the preferred way, but it's one way to close the project, but we always close projects Whether it is by completing what we said that we were going to do, and delivering
Orlando Sequera: a at the end of the project, or by project termination that might happen
Orlando Sequera: if the deliverables are no longer needed.
Orlando Sequera: We were
Orlando Sequera: coming up with a service associated with a particular reg reg regulation. But now that regulation change so, therefore, there's no longer a a need for our service or our project that's termination. Usually what happens or in. Let's assume for a minute that we're trying to develop a new
Orlando Sequera: applicant tracking system for the Human Resources Department of an organization and all of a sudden we were acquired by a larger organization
Orlando Sequera: that already has an applicant tracking system in place. Therefore there's no longer a need for our project. So that's what projects are always close, whether it is by termination or by completing the scope of the product.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: this is what we covered. We talked about governance, we learned that we need to determine the appropriate governance for a project, and we also talked about escalation paths and thresholds key aspect here authority. You need to understand the organizational structure, the type of organization that you're working with.
Orlando Sequera: So you can answer that properly. Understand? Can it do I have to escalate, or can I solve it internally with the team?
Orlando Sequera: And the last topic that we have for today is
Orlando Sequera: Project compliance.
Orlando Sequera: We talked about governance. Now we're going to talk about for the compliance.
Orlando Sequera: This is a type of requirement that we have in our project, and is a crucial, crucial crucial topic.
Orlando Sequera: We need to understand.
Orlando Sequera: This goes back to.
Orlando Sequera: And in this case, yes, this has impacts associated with
Orlando Sequera: a enterprise. Environmental factors like government regulations. That's an if
Orlando Sequera: corporate policies. That would be an opa. So this touches both. But these are requirements that we have to meet to be compliant. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: it might also be related to
Orlando Sequera: in this might be tied up to a Pmo. If it's in place.
Orlando Sequera: and these are special special type of requirements that we have to meet in our projects.
Orlando Sequera: Project team is gonna be responsible for
Orlando Sequera: a compliance related activities.
Orlando Sequera: And this has an impact on
Orlando Sequera: procurement multiple areas of your project and also on quality. This is a type of requirement that we have to make sure this can be a make or break aspect of your project. You have to be compliant. We need to understand the impacts of non compliance, compliance, requirements.
Orlando Sequera: Kim
Orlando Sequera: drive.
Orlando Sequera: It can be associated to legal constraints. This is about requirements for specific practices, standards, privacy, loss, for example, health care, pay, protecting patient information, hepa in the Us.
Orlando Sequera: Or or in the in Europe for
Orlando Sequera: information protecting information, things. Gdpr: if i'm not mistaken for those of you that are in Europe. So that might have an impact on your project. If you are a if your project is.
Orlando Sequera: it has a name. It's gonna be impacted by those legislation. We need to be compliant with them.
Orlando Sequera: or how we handle sensitive information right for those of you that have worked with the government. You know exactly what I'm talking about. These can make or break your project. So
Orlando Sequera: how much process, rigor and quality control is for them. It depends on the product. It depends on the industry. That's why we need to understand the different enterprise, environmental factors and organizational process assets.
Orlando Sequera: and when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: your
Orlando Sequera: compliance we have multiple categories. We have environmental risks.
Orlando Sequera: workplace, health and safety, social responsibility. We have quality. We have process risks these changes from industry to industry and it. But it is important for you to know about it
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: And, by the way, we have been.
Orlando Sequera: We have a link to our
Orlando Sequera: survey.
Orlando Sequera: Please fill out the survey before
Orlando Sequera: you leave the session today.
Orlando Sequera: That is going to help us to make the adjustments that we need to make to provide you with a better experience.
Orlando Sequera: When it comes to compliance risks we have to investigate and understand who handles the compliance.
Orlando Sequera: What is the organizations quality policy? We, that's why we need to understand which opa's are applicable. That's an opa, by the way, and we also need to understand how these regulatory requirements impact the organization. We gotta understand the impact. And again, this can make or break your project.
Orlando Sequera: And also
Orlando Sequera: are the team members aware of compliance matters. So we do get to do a little bit of the detective work to understand that this is extremely important. This is a type of
Orlando Sequera: risk that can make or break your project
Orlando Sequera: A. This is very important. You should treat it as a project objective.
Orlando Sequera: be proactive when it comes to compliance
Orlando Sequera: a requirements, and being able to make sure that is taken into account. This should be part of your quality, audits.
Orlando Sequera: make sure that you validate
Orlando Sequera: legal and regulatory compliance for the work that is being produced.
Orlando Sequera: and if a compliance risks is identified, make sure that it is added to the list of risks that we call
Orlando Sequera: risk register.
Orlando Sequera: We need to have the actual compliance risk.
Orlando Sequera: Who's the owner Who's gonna be the
Orlando Sequera: individual in charge of implementing their response? What is the impact, and what are their responses that we're gonna implement? In the event of that compliance? Risk materializing.
Orlando Sequera: really, really, really important, some specialized industry organizations. They have a usually compliance department or officer that can help with that. In
Orlando Sequera: NASA contracting organizations, Usually they do have a compliance department
Orlando Sequera: highly regulated.
Orlando Sequera: and what are the best practices
Orlando Sequera: follow when it comes to compliance, documentation, documentation, document
Orlando Sequera: need to understand compliance needs and and the risks.
Orlando Sequera: We gotta do
Orlando Sequera: a thorough risk planning process. Make sure that compliance is prioritized.
Orlando Sequera: Anything related to complaints, he said the list.
Orlando Sequera: We should have our experts a system in compliance.
Orlando Sequera: related
Orlando Sequera: activities. We should have compliance audits in place, and
Orlando Sequera: this is part of your job as a P. In this part, your stewardship.
Orlando Sequera: You are the steward of your project, and
Orlando Sequera: being compliant, is part of the stewardship
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: quick question that I have for some of you.
Orlando Sequera: Do you have a quality policy in your organization? I hope the answer is yes.
Orlando Sequera: And if you don't know, find out that's gonna be your homework, find out, and what are the kind of compliance activities that you're involved with
Orlando Sequera: or for some of you.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, I see that some of you are saying Yes.
Orlando Sequera: So compliance important. And we'll basically mention that again it later in the in the class when it come when we start talking about risks. So we just covered
Orlando Sequera: plan and manage for a compliance. We got a. It's a type of requirement.
Orlando Sequera: He touches both eefs like regulations or lost, that are applicable, and it also covers
Orlando Sequera: some organization process assets like the quality policy. We have multiple categories, and it is extremely important to understand the consequences of non compliance. Why stays a separate topic? Because this is another make or break deal for any project, a non-compliance.
Orlando Sequera: a risk that materializes can
Orlando Sequera: can be a deal breaker for your project can can be a re recipe for destruction. We have to address understand the impact of non-compliance and address them, and that's part of risk management.
Orlando Sequera: We have come to
Orlando Sequera: the end of the content.
Orlando Sequera: For today's lesson.
Orlando Sequera: Please fill out the survey. We have a few minutes left.
Orlando Sequera: Please fill out the survey for day One. Thank you so much for your cooperation. I see that we have.
Orlando Sequera: If we we got the chat under control, we got the Q. And a. Under control.
Orlando Sequera: Thank you so much for your cooperation and understanding. We'll do it. We're going to be better tomorrow, because now we learn how to use the Q. And a. How to use the chat has been graper. Please do not leave without
Orlando Sequera: filling out the survey.
Orlando Sequera: We'll please make sure that you add your input we review that thoroughly, and we get a lot of great feedback that we can implement this always room for improvement. Okay, so please fill out, fill out the survey it. There is a scale that we have.
Orlando Sequera: for if you really like the session.
Orlando Sequera: the 10, if if if not at all likely, so do you have that's the scale.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: please fill out the survey won't take you. It will take
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: So.
Orlando Sequera: and remember that after
Orlando Sequera: each session we have vocabulary in your Pdf version you have this vocabulary. If you want to. Do you want to make sure that you master this vocabulary?
Orlando Sequera: Please make sure that you review it, You, Pmo. For example, for today tailoring. We talked about strategic plan. So this is important. This is really, really, really important that you get familiarized with this vocabulary for your Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: Thank you so much, everyone.
Orlando Sequera: It's been a great the link to the
Orlando Sequera: So the survey was in the chat, but i'm sure that we can put it in the Q. A. As well. Please fill out the survey.
Orlando Sequera: It's in the Q. And a. As well.
Orlando Sequera: and fill out the survey. Thank you so much. Everyone.
Orlando Sequera: Great day one. We're gonna do it again tomorrow and feel free to reach out on Linkedin.
Orlando Sequera: by all means, and we're gonna be here tomorrow to do it again. So thank you very much. Everyone
Orlando Sequera: have a great rest of your day. I'm gonna stay. We're gonna stay here for a couple of minutes for some additional questions.
Orlando Sequera: There's the survey. We past the chat, and there's a survey link for
Orlando Sequera: for you to fill out before you leave the session. Thank you so much, everyone
Orlando Sequera: at 60'clock, or
Orlando Sequera: in a minute you will be free to look off.
Orlando Sequera: Just one more minute, please.
Orlando Sequera: The Zoom. Link is not going to change the same link.
Orlando Sequera: Compliance covers more aspects with different aspects that are
Orlando Sequera: that than just governance. Governance is what you have to follow there. Similar in some ways
Orlando Sequera: the oversight it's project oversight, but compliance is more. It's a broader a aspect.
Question.
Orlando Sequera: The vocabulary is in the Pdf version of the slides
Orlando Sequera: That's a question in the Q. And a.
Orlando Sequera: We're selling for the survey in the chat
Orlando Sequera: that has been passed so you can click on. Look at the chat, and it's right there.
Orlando Sequera: Thank you very much.
Orlando Sequera: I see some questions about the attendance tracker. Remember, the instructions are in the attendance document, so read the the instructions in the document.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: all right, we have come to the end. We're gonna stay here for a few more minutes to answer some questions, but i'm gonna stop the recording.